A KwaZulu-Natal social worker was left with wounds all over her body, following a brutal assault in March. Social Development MEC, Nonhlanhla Khoza, condemned the attack, which was allegedly committed by a colleague at the Sundumbili Social Development Service offices in Stanger. In a statement the department said the social worker was allegedly attacked when she went to collect party items that her male colleague drove off with following a celebration. The man was arrested and granted bail from the local magistrate's court. Khoza said the extent of injuries sustained by the social worker were serious. She added: "Given the role the perpetrator plays at work, one wouldn't expect such behaviour. He should have known better. We encourage women to speak up against abuse and stop protecting their abusers. "As the Department of Social Development, we have a responsibility to lead by example and the public is expecting us to deal with this case decisively." Khoza said most of the people who attacked and abused women and children were men, adding that it was high time that "real men stood up against such abnormal behaviour". No men should walk freely with pride after abusing a woman, the MEC added. "We want to see cases of abuse reported to the police and not withdrawn, but the the law must be allowed to take its course. The withdrawal of cases is another challenge that we face while trying to address domestic violence in our society," Khoza said. "We are aware of a number of cases that remain unreported, but we want to encourage women not to suffer alone ... they must expose these abusers before they take their lives." In April, Khoza visited Mpumalanga township, west of Durban, where she encouraged the community to speak out about incidents of gender-based violence, adding that GBV is often an interplay of community, individual, cultural, religious and economic factors at different levels in society. "As the community, we must become proactive in an effort to prevent and eliminate GBV. As government, we have availed a lot of resources, including policies to end GBV. The policies are aimed at insuring that justice is served for women," the MEC said. "It is [also] important to empower women by giving them opportunities to become economically independent because many die as a result of being dependent to their abusers." 