The uncertainty around securing employment after graduating from tertiary institutions, and poverty, has seen dozens of young women enter “blesser-blessee” relationships. But many tend to lose power in relationships at times, resulting in physical abuse and death. A University of KwaZulu-Natal Master of Arts graduate investigated the link between poverty and gender-based violence for her degree. Nomazulu Singata (27) of Qumbu in the Eastern Cape said she wanted to uncover the truths about the blesser-blessee phenomenon and also educate people. Singata, who graduated last week, said the phenomenon had been glamourised and normalised on social media. “When people report on this, they don’t focus on the bad parts. They tend to speak about getting weaves and being flown to Dubai,” said Singata. While she did not personally know anyone who had been a blesser before, she said that the lifestyles being led by many students at the Howard College campus made her want to research the subject. “I wanted to find out more on why people go into these relationships and in my research I speak about how peer pressure is a real thing especially from social media. “The phenomenon has been normalised but I wanted this to be educational. There are many things that influence the decision to enter such a relationship. Many women don’t know how they will get employment after university, some come from poor homes and want material things that their friends have,” said Singata. Singata said in her research she also touches on how the relationships culminate into gender-based violence. “These type of relationships are a give and take and even if you’re uncomfortable to do some things, you don’t have a choice because they have control over you, it’s also not easy for you as the blessee to leave,” said Singata. She added that the phenomenon was not new and also happened between older women and younger men, as well as between older men and younger men. “People used to bless each other but there was no social media to publicise that and it was not a big deal.” She said many of the blessers she spoke to either refused to be named or did not think of themselves as a blesser. She said her research had led to professional opportunities. “Those sleepless nights have paid off and I now realise that all my hard work was not in vain. It also feels exciting because I have become a positive statistic as a young black female moving towards her PhD,” said Singata. 