With support for embattled Health Minister Zweli Mkhize in his home province of KwaZulu-Natal growing, President Cyril Ramaphosa could find it difficult to ditch him. Ramaphosa last week placed Mkhize on special leave following a fallout over a R150 million tender awarded by the health department to Digital Vibes, a company controlled by the health minister’s close associates. Since Mkhize’s suspension, there has been speculation that Ramaphosa, who is expected to reshuffle his cabinet in the next few weeks, would drop the embattled health minister from his cabinet. However, sources within the ANC believe that the amount of support which Mkhize has been receiving since taking special leave is increasingly making it difficult for Ramaphosa to remove the health minister. “It’s no longer about public perception but more to do with what the Special Investigative Unit (SIU) says in its final report. “If the President goes ahead and removes Mkhize, irrespective of the SIU’s finding, then the President would be vulnerable to accusations that he is applying double standards,” an ANC national executive committee (NEC) member, said. She said SIU would have to recommend criminal charges against Mkhize for Ramaphosa to find a substantial reason to get rid of him. ALSO READ | Mkhize not lobbying KZN ANC leaders says provincial leadership Even though Mkhize’s family allegedly benefited from the controversial tender, the health minister insisted that he had not been aware that the Digital Vibes directors had diverted some of the funds to contractors or bank accounts tied to his family. Further, Mkhize denied having influenced the department’s officials to award the tender to Digital Vibes. “As it stands, it would be difficult for the SIU to find evidence showing that the health minister, interfered,” the ANC NEC member, said. Meanwhile, Mkhize’s support among ANC members appears not to have been dented by the Digital Vibes scandal. Last week Mkhize, who is reportedly still enjoy significant support in his home province of KZN, briefed ANC provincial chairperson, Sihle Zikalala and provincial secretary, Mdumiseni Ntuli, about his suspension. Preparations are also currently underway to get Mkhize to meet with his home ANC branch which incorporates his township of Willowfontein, in Pietermaritzburg. Branch’s chairperson, Sbusiso Mkhize said: “At the moment the information we have is all from the media. That’s why we took a decision as the branch that Comrade Zweli should brief us about his situation. It’s also important for me to indicate that the branch held a meeting last Sunday, where we resolved to lend support to Comrade Zweli.” The branch’s decision to support Mkhize represented a shift from its 2017 position that he was no longer a member in good standing as he spent most of his time in Gauteng from where he worked as the ANC’s treasurer general. “No, no, the fact of the matter is that we are fully behind Comrade Zweli. Even if he ends up in court, we will be there for him,” the ANC branch chairperson said when asked about their 2017 stance.