Young and talented illustrators are being sought out by the KwaDukuza Municipality, on the KZN North Coast. The municipality is hosting a competition that seeks to expose emerging artists and their work to the visual arts industry as part of its Youth Month initiatives. Aspiring artists are being called on to produce works with the theme “Growing KwaDukuza together beyond Covid-19”, said municipal spokesperson Sipho Mkhize. He said while the municipality previously focused on the arts, music has been the main thing showcased. “This new concept is opening up opportunities to artists of a visual nature. It is widening the scoop and providing more exposure to the talents of our people.” He said the winner of the competition will meet with council to plan the transfer of the winning artwork to a five metre by five metre wall at the youth office which is currently under renovation. Furthermore, the three finalists will be awarded prize money. Speaking about the concept in the broader perspective, he said they would like to share the idea with other municipalities. “This project can expand and give opportunities to artists all over KZN. I would encourage those municipalities especially where the issue of graffiti is prevalent to adopt such a concept so that there is moderation in the matter.” He said municipalities can put a stop to people defacing buildings and other infrastructure by giving these “street artists” legitimate opportunities to showcase their work. Eligible artists must be between the ages of 16 and 35-years-old and must permanently reside in KwaDukuza. Application requirements -A copy of SA identity document -Proof of residence letter -One printed photo of previous work (mural or wall illustration) -One sample of the proposed wall artwork that must be printed on a minimum A3 size paper or canvas to a maximum of A0 size. Only paintwork will be accepted (oil, spray, water paint, etc). -A 250 words conceptual synopsis that outlines the central idea of the artwork. Employees of government institutions or entities and employees of the art sector agencies or entities will not be eligible to enter. Rules for submission Only original work or concepts of the individual’s intellectual content will be accepted. If the authenticity of the submitted sample is questionable, council reserves the right to disqualify an entry. Submitted artwork must be labelled to include the artist’s name, surname, date created and contact number. No email or digital media submissions will be accepted. All entries must be submitted to the manager of youth development at 42 Hullet/Goolam Suleman Street. The competition closes on June 30, at 3pm. For more information contact 032 437 5170 or email: wisemanc@kwadukuza.gov.za