Residents who live along the alternative route to the N3 at Townhill, take note. The traffic there is set to increase dramatically as the N3 could close at times to all traffic except heavy vehicles. The Hilton Ratepayers Association wants the South African National Roads Agency (Sanral) to upgrade the alternative route and inform all residents about lane closures, alternative routes and more before they start with the rehabilitation of the N3 on Town Hill. They also want the agency to accept its six stage plan of maintaining, upgrading and repairing the alternative route. Mike Tarr, of the association, said a construction company recently received the contract for rehabilitation of the section of the N3 freeway between Hilton Interchange and Sanctuary Road Interchange. He said the R270-million contract will start in February 2021 and is due to finish in 2023. The contractor will keep the N3’s lanes open wherever possible, however, there will be long periods when only one lane will be available for traffic. That lane will be reserved for trucks and all light vehicles will have to drive the alternative routes, Tarr explained. The alternative routes is along Old Howick Road, past Grey’s Hospital to Chatterton circle. Tarr said a six-stage plan to maintain, upgrade and repair the alternative route has been compiled by a engineers resident in the three Wards through which the alternative route passes. The plan has been discussed informally with Sanral, the consulting engineers and the contractors and agreement obtained in principle of its necessity. The plan is yet to be presented formally to Sanral. “The aim is for Sanral to formally accept that the alternative route must be maintained, upgraded and repaired urgently to safely accommodate the greatly increased traffic flow on the alternative route caused by lane closures on Town Hill,” Tarr said. Tarr said it is estimated that the necessary work to maintain, upgrade and repair the full length of the alternative route would cost in the region of R5 million to R10 million. Comment from the agency was not received at the time of going to print.