The Department of Basic Education has urged all teachers and staff to be in school in order to prepare for the vaccination programme starting on Wednesday. The department said regular school attendance will contribute to the successful implementation of the vaccination programme targeting 582 000 people in the next two weeks. The vaccination programme is an opportunity to normalise schooling and intensify the process of mitigating the impact of Covid-19 on schooling, said the department. At the weekend, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga announced that the vaccination of personnel in the sector would start officially on Wednesday following the arrival of an initial 300 000 doses of the Johnson & Johnson vaccines. In her address, the minister said that all the five official and recognised teachers’ unions (SADTU, NAPTOSA, NATU, PEU and SAOU) were in full support of the vaccination programme as part of the fight against Covid. The leadership of the teacher unions are themselves expected to get vaccinated this week, she said. Motshekga said school governing body associations also supported the vaccination programme and committed to working closely with the department to ensure that all targeted people are vaccinated. “For the next two weeks, we make the clarion call to our school communities to “drop all and vaccinate!” In order for us to successfully complete this programme, we will need to keep schools open. Any disruptions would be undesirable. “We need to work extremely hard and around the clock to vaccinate as many people as possible in our sector. Vaccinating does not mean that we need to stop adhering to the nonpharmaceutical health and safety protocols,”  said Motshekga. The department has sent a circular to provinces in which it outlines all the steps that must be taken before and during the vaccination process in basic education sector. Provincial education departments will also provide more details to district and circuit offices as well as schools on scheduling of the vaccination in all the sites.