The KwaZulu-Natal Social Development Department removed two children from their home in Pietermaritzburg on Sunday amid suspicions of neglect by their mother. The department said the two children, aged one and four, were often left without food for the whole day and neighbours provided for them. A team of social workers, accompanied by police officers from Plessislaer, went to the home in the Maqeleni area, Edendale, on Sunday after a video of the children started making its rounds on social media. The children were taken to a place of safety. MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza commended government officials’ intervention to rescue the children. “Our team had to leave their families to uphold children’s rights. The incident should serve as a warning to many parents who abuse children that nothing will stop government from protecting children’s rights and there will be consequences for errant parents. Our joint operations with the police will also ensure that we arrest those people who violate children’s rights,” she said. “The children slept comfortably last night [Sunday night] after being bath and fed. They are currently in our place of safety. They will be given debriefing and counselling following their ordeal. The department will also be introducing the children to the early child development centre to ensure that we stimulate their brains because it appears that they were also denied such right,” she said. Khoza vowed that the department will always move swiftly to rescue children who suffer abuse and neglect. She further applauded whistle-blowers for alerting the department about the children’s sufferings. “Indeed, we need more active community members to work with government to ensure that our social workers are informed of the challenges encountered by vulnerable groups. Our team is always combat-ready to intervene and rescue those in distress situations…” said Khoza. She further revealed that the mother will face the full might of the law. “People like the mother of these children should never escape prosecution. We also have to find the father of these children to ensure that both parents face the law. The law must set an example with such parents who believe that they have a right to abuse children,” she said. Khoza said the department would investigate what led to the mother neglecting her children as community members indicated that the children were always left alone in the house.