The world’s first “Journey of Blood” facility has been unveiled by the South African National Blood Service (SANBS). Based at their KwaZulu-Natal regional headquarters in Mount Edgecombe, the state-of-the-art 7500 square metre laboratory will make it possible for the public to go on a walk through the facility without physically entering the laboratory space and be able to see first-hand the testing and processing of blood to get it ready to save a life. SANBS built the facility to raise awareness of blood transfusions in the province and grow the donor pool so that eventually KZN can supply enough blood to meet its own needs. Some of the features include a glass ceiling that provides a full view of the journey of blood and interactive information screens. The facility is a “green building” powered by solar energy with a borehole water system and a negligible carbon footprint. It also has a drone port on the roof of the building. The facility even features a restaurant for donors to eat at before or after donating blood. Ravi Reddy, SANBS CEO said, “This first of its kind ‘Journey of Blood’ destination centre highlights the operating philosophy at SANBS which is underpinned by a focus on long-term sustainability, risk mitigation and a values-based culture centred on donors, staff and patients. “The blood donor fraternity is tremendously excited to be allowed to walk the ‘Journey of Blood’ and our team is eager to share their expertise with our valued donors. Regulators, scholars and students are also welcome to experience the journey of blood with us.” The World Health Organisation (WHO) says safe blood and blood products and their transfusion are a critical aspect of care and public health. They save millions of lives and improve the health and quality of life of many patients every day. The need for blood is universal, but access to blood for all those who need it is not. Ansie Ramalho, SANBS chairperson said the launch of the laboratory highlights their continuous dedication to be sustainable innovators in the industry. “Our facilities will benefit our staff, donors and visitors who will come and walk the ‘Journey of blood’. The ‘Journey of Blood’ laboratory will ensure we meet blood demands in KwaZulu-Natal, improve community health through various studies with renowned scientists and in terms of sustainability it contributes to our vision of greening SANBS which is in line with the UN 2030 sustainable development goals. “This further underpins our commitment to ensure that SANBS not only becomes the cornerstone of health care in South Africa but all over the world,” she said. INFO BOX - DID YOU KNOW? Donors can donate their blood up to six times a year. One unit of blood can save up to three lives. Those who are blood group A and AB donors between the ages of 18 to 65 years are eligible to donate plasma every two weeks to a maximum of 24 times a year.