Lethu Nkwanyana from KwaDukuza, on the North Coast, beat out more than 200 competitors, with his poem Uprising, to win the Poetry Africa Youth Month competition. After sharing over 200 video poems on their social media for more than two weeks, the recent Poetry Africa competition came to a close during the afternoon of Youth Day and the winners were announced on Monday, June 21. The annual international festival is curated and presented by the Centre for Creative Arts which is based the University of KwaZulu-Natal. The event will celebrate its 25th edition in October of this year. Commenting on Nkwanyana’s poem, the judging panel said: “He evoked some good imagery that didn’t even need the video. He followed the theme throughout, and his poem is well executed in both English and isiZulu. In fact, he knew he was in a competition and was in it to win it.” The 26-year-old took home a cash prize of R3000 and his poem will also be published in the Poetry Africa anthology. He has also won himself a spot on the 25th Poetry Africa Festival line-up. “Thank you so much, it has always been my dream to be part of Poetry Africa. I am so grateful and happy,” said Nkwanyana. This online version of this competition made it possible for entrants from anywhere in South Africa to enter in the language of their choice. The organisers received submissions in all official South African languages and shared a special acknowledgement of two submissions. Kiara Naidoo from VN Naik School For The Deaf in Durban submitted her poem titled ‘Deafinately’ in sign language. Jeffrey Oasarib from Stellenbosch submitted his poem titled ‘Khâima #khamkhoin’ in the Khoikhoi language. The audiences’ choice category – which was for the poem with the most likes on Facebook - was won by 19-year old Malete Morongwa Vanesa from Hammanskraal, with a poem titled Honouring the Students of 16 June. The second prize went to 23-year old Nomawethu Gama from Ntuzuma, Durban, with her poem Born for War. “She understood the assignment and delivered. We loved how she took the war all the way back to the womb,” the jury said. The June 16 Poetry Project is one of a series of Poetry Africa interventions supported by the National Institute for Humanities to document the relationship between spoken word poetry and the social justice movement. LINK TO VIDEO: https://fb.watch/v/3490ig4Es/