Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife staff got up close and personal with some slithery serpents during a training session with reptile expert and conservationist, Dingo Dinkelman. The sessions, which are run from his Hillcrest base until June 24, are founded on the belief that conservation can only be achieved through collaboration. In each session 15 to 20 of Ezemvelo’s district conservation officers, district regional managers and scientists were taught about reptile handling, husbandry training, snake identification and snake handling. “Ezemvelo does amazing work for local conservation, with their duties often involving visiting wild places and dealing with wild animals,” said Dinkelman. “Because budgets are often limited, I reached out to assist in whatever way I could, which is how the training programmes were established. “The focus is on upskilling, enhancing knowledge and providing attendees with an opportunity to experience reptiles up close. “It’s about ridding fear where there is fear, and ensuring everyone is prepared to fulfil their duties.” Dinkleman believes that no long-lasting conservation efforts can be achieved in isolation. “There is no individual or organisation big enough or equipped with sufficient skills and resources to change the world on their own for conservation,” he added. “Collaboration is absolutely key, which is why I believe in collaborations such as these. “Every organisation has its strengths, and we can all help each other, and the natural world, by sharing knowledge, expertise and experience.” Speaking about the training programme, Musa Mntambo, spokesperson for Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife, said: “We believe that the training provided by Dingo will assist us immensely in carrying out our daily duties of inspection and monitoring. “It would be risky to embark on these tasks with limited knowledge of reptile handling, so we are really grateful to Dingo for willingly spending his time with us and sharing his expertise.” Dinkleman has had a close connection with the natural world from an early age, travelling with his family to South Africa’s wildlife parks and rehabilitating wildlife at their home. • To find out more about Dingo Dinkelman’s adventures, like his Facebook page: dingodinkelman, follow him on Instagram at Dingo Dinkelman, check out his videos on YouTube (at Dingo Dinkelman), or visit www.dingowild.com.