Motorists are being urged to keep away from East Street in Pietermaritzburg where protesters are burning tyres and other debris. The protest started at 8 pm on Tuesday night at the intersection of East and Berg streets and then moved to the intersection of East and Church streets. One of the protesters, Nwabisa Dziya, said she had been without electricity for the past seven days. She added: "I'm hungry. I can't cook. I'm using money to buy bread and cooldrink because I have to take medicine for HIV and TB. "I work. I use my money to pay for rent and electricity. But my fridge is not working and I have to throw food away." Her comments were echoed by another protester, who asked to remain anonymous. She said: "I started protesting at 8 pm last night. I am asking for electricity from the municipality. "I understand the two hours loadshedding from the municipality, but I don't understand why we have no electricity for seven days. "I will carry on protesting until the power comes back." DA ward councillor, Suraya Reddy, said residents from the hostel on East Street were also protesting after their electricity was disconnected. The residents are being supported by shopkeepers in East Street, who are being forced to throw away stock. Ali Safdar, who runs the Bonginkosi Supermarket, said his business had been without power since 10 am last Friday. He told The Witness that the electricity department had informed them that they did not have the necessary cables to restore electricity to the area. "They said they have ordered cables from Johannesburg. They were supposed to arrive yesterday (Tuesday) but didn't," Safdar added. "We have no choice but to close our shop. From Friday, till now, over six days we are not even making R1. Even our fridge stock, we are losing it. Chicken, everything that is in the fridge is going off. "We have to throw out our stock. We are losing our business. We are losing our stock. We can't suffer like this anymore." Bheki Zulu, from Msunduzi Traffic Department, said they were diverting vehicles coming to the city centre from Sobantu. They are being directed to use Masukwana Street to get to Jabu Ndlovu Street. Motorists are also being diverted into Jabu Ndlovu Street from Echo Street, and those who usually use Langabalibalele Street are being advised to use Jabu Ndlovu Street instead. The municipal traffic officials are waiting for back up from the SAPS, which only has one car on scene at East Street. The public order policing unit is likely to be deployed, Zulu said, to assist with crowd control. There was also a protest over power issues in the Sweetwaters area. One message on a community group reported there was glass placed across the road and another reported that blocks had been placed on the road. This article has been updated with new information.