KwaZulu-Natal residents need to brace themselves for more scattered showers and thundershowers expected over most parts of KZN, but widespread along the coast and adjacent interior. The South African Weather Service (Saws) said significant amounts of rain is expected from Thursday night, raining continuously until Friday, and will likely result in flooding in places. Weather Services said heavy rains can be expected in Ugu, Ilembe, Ethekwini, Umgungundlovu, King Cetshwayo and the Harry Gwala district. The impact of the disruptive rainfall is expected to result in the flooding of roads and settlements. Also expect major traffic disruptions due to roads being flooded and possible damage to roads and bridges. It may also cause disruptions to essential services such as water, electricity, communication and schools The KZN Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) said disaster management teams across the province are continuing to monitor the inclement weather conditions that have brought snow in areas along the Drakensberg and heavy rains in the northern parts of the province. Since Monday, disaster management teams have responded to incidents in Nquthu where five houses collapsed as a result of the heavy snow that struck the area. Cogta said specialised graders had to be used to clear snow blocked roads between Underberg and Kokstad. On Thursday morning, Cogta’s MEC Sipho Hlomuka together with the MEC for Public Works and Human Settlements Jomo Sibiya visited the Abaqulusi Municipality where they officially launched the winter season disaster awareness campaign as the province continues to grapple with inclement weather conditions. The launch took place in the rural village of eZibomvini, where the MECs oversaw the installation of lightning conductors that will protect households within this village. The MECs also handed over a newly built borehole to the community. MEC Hlomuka has assured residents of KZN that disaster management teams continue to be on high alert in anticipation of heavy rains that are expected along the coast. He also warned residents and motorists residing in these areas to exercise extreme caution. 