The IFP on Tuesday called on supporters of former president Jacob Zuma to accept the ConCourt ruling that he should go to prison for defying the highest court’s order. In its Tuesday ruling, the ConCourt ordered Zuma to hand himself over to the police so that he could start serving the 15 month sentence which it imposed on him for defying the highest court’s order to appear before the Zondo Commission of Inquiry. ALSO READ | MKMVA members vow to protect Zuma IFP national spokesperson, Mkhulekho Hlengwa, called for calm. “The IFP… calls for calm, as we are well aware of the volatile situation at present. “We implore the supporters of former President Jacob Zuma to act with restraint and accept the Constitutional Court ruling,” he said. Hlengwa said the IFP welcomed the ruling as it sent out a message that no one was above the law. “This matter did not have to go this far, had the former president complied with the directive of the State Capture Commission. “We hope that he will respect and honour this ruling, and comply with the order that he must submit himself to the police within the next five days,” he said. ALSO READ | Zuma sentenced to 15 months imprisonment by ConCourt In its judgment, the ConCourt ordered police minister Bheki Cele, to ensure that Zuma was arrested within three days should the former president fail to abide by the order to hand himself to police within five days. DA federal leader, John Steenhuisen, said the sentence imposed by the ConCourt on Zuma brought to an end an era where the former president considered himself to be above the law. “We may have many other challenges as a country right now, but this judgment has struck a crucial blow for equality before the law, without which no democracy can prosper,” he said. Civil society organisation Corruption Watch, described the sentence as “historic”. “For the first time in South Africa, we are seeing a former head of state held directly accountable by way of a prison sentence, for his refusal to submit himself to the commission or to the jurisdiction of the ConCourt in this matter,” said Karam Singh, head of legal and investigations at Corruption Watch.