EFF leader, Julius Malema, was one of the political leaders who visited the late Zulu King, Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu's kwaKhethomthandayo Royal Palace in Nongoma on Tuesday morning. Malema was accompanied by his deputy, Floyd Shivambu and EFF secretary general Marshal Dlamini. The EFF delegation formed part of a throng of high profile political leaders who visited the palace on Tuesday morning to pay their last respects to the King, who passed away on Friday. EFF leader, Julius Malema, said the King fought for the restoration of the pride of black people. Addressing members of the Zulu royal family at the kwaKhethomthandayo Royal Palace in Nongoma, Malema said the EFF has been a loyal supporter of the King and his efforts to uplift the lives of black people. "He qualifies to be a friend of the progressive forces," he said. Malema, who was accompanied by his deputy, Floyd Shivambu and EFF secretary general, Marshal Dlamini, said the King worked hard to unite the Zulu nation. "He was at the center of the facilitation of peace in KZN," he said. King Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu, Malema said, also shared the EFF's position that land currently under the control of a minority should be expropriated. "As the EFF we had engagements with the King and one of the issues we discussed with him was the land question," Malema said. King Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu,  who ruled the Zulu nation for 49 years, will be buried during the course of the week. A state memorial service for the King, whose burial will be attended only by close male family members, will be held on Thursday. Deputy President David Mabuza, ANC secretary general, Ace Magashule and former KZN Premier, Willies Mchunu, are among high profile figures who visited the Zulu royal family on at the kwaKhethomthandayo Royal Palace on Tuesday. ANC secretary general Ace Magashule also met members of the Zulu royal family at the palace on Tuesday morning. Magashule, who waved at mourners lined outside the entrance to palace, was accompanied by former KwaZulu-Natal premier, Willies Mchunu.