Sean Everitt appears to be in a very acceptable position at the moment after coming through plenty of high-scoring matches in the just-completed SA Rugby Preparation Series, or Franchise Cup, which generated rewards and lessons to be learned for all concerned. The Sharks coach says they received what they desired from the four-game exhibition series, and he claims his team are not fazed about having one of the worst travel burdens for the forthcoming Rainbow Cup that involves European opposition. As promised, Everitt gave opportunities to young players during all the friendly matches, which his team ended with Friday’s big win over the Bulls at home, and there was a focus on fitness and tactical issues, or processes as rugby coaches like to say. In the 45-12 hammering of the ‘B Team’ put out by the Bulls “wise men” as part of their own processes, it was the Sharks’ rapid pace of play and strong opportunity-taking that stood out in the inclement weather. Rassie Erasmus, Saru’s Director of Rugby, would also have witnessed the proceedings with a smile, because that’s what he asked for before the series began. His department even introduced new rules to increase the amount of ball-in-play time during the games, to help local franchises prepare for their European expeditions and, untimately, impact the Springboks positively. Said Everitt: “Our guys are a very tight-knit group and our culture is growing, and our style of rugby is growing, and the coaches are growing, so it’s just great at the moment. “We wanted to play quickly, and it worked well. The guys’ skill level was really high. “I said the preparation series is about putting processes together for a long-term goal, and we certainly achieved that, along with giving everyone opportunities to play.” With these good vibes running through his 51-year-old body, Everitt really downplayed the fact that his team will have the bulk of their Rainbow Cup matches away from King’s Park, starting with a visit to the Stormers in Cape Town on April 24. He said: “You are dealt cards and you got to play with them. It is the same thing at home [the Rainbow Cup fixtures in South Africa], there are three of them at home and two of them are not at King’s Park. It is just the luck of the draw. “So, we can just control what we can control. The Sharks in the past have travelled really well, and I don’t expect anything less from a tour to Europe, as well. We are not quite sure where these fixtures will take place, but we are going to be over there for two weeks and will get use to the conditions. “I don’t think they are going to be as severe as everybody is making out at this time of the year. But I think the guys are also looking forward to the challenge of playing new teams, not that we did not enjoy playing Super Rugby.” Everitt also said that amid the overall team effort in the wet on Friday, recent signing Siya Kolisi, stand-in flyhalf Boeta Chamberlain and young lock Emile van Heerden would all have received boosts of confidence in their respective personal situations. While loose forward Sikhumbuzo Notshe got injured in the game and flyhalf Curwin Bosch had to skip it altogether, the coach expects both men to come good in coming days. Meanwhile, the very last game of the Preparation Series saw the Cheetahs thrash EP 71-12 in Bloemfontein yesterday.