Pet owners are being urged to vaccinate their pets after a spike in rabies cases in KwaZulu-Natal since the beginning of the year has seen two children die from the incurable disease. Fifty-seven dogs have tested positive so far this year, especially along the KZN coast, compared to 35 dogs at the same time last year, the KZN Department of Agriculture and Rural Development said in a statement. The map shows the po­sitive animals by area. The latest cases, as at March 24, were a dog in Folweni, a puppy in Croftdene, Chatsworth and a dog in Malukazi, all in the eThekwini Metro area. Responding to the surge in cases, vaccination campaigns are being rolled out throughout KZN by the department. Pet owners are encouraged to be on the lookout for advertisements and warnings issued by their provincial veterinary services. These are also circula­ted on social media. The National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) confirmed that a 10-year-old boy — who was bitten by a dog on the South Coast — and a two-year-old boy from eNgonyameni near uMlazi in eThekwini, both died from the disease. The NICD said in its January communiqué the 10-year-old boy was reported to have been bitten by a dog in Umbumbulu but no medical consultation was sought until the child experienced nausea, vomiting, confusion and restlessness. He died on January 7. The two-year-old boy, who was bitten in the head while playing with a dog in the last week of January, was admitted to a hospital on February 10. He had fever, nausea, vomited, muscle spasms, hyper-salivation, hydrophobia, confusion, agitation, hyperactivity and showed aggressive behaviour. He died on February 11. Rabies was laboratory confirmed in the two-year-old boy on February 15. In last year’s rabies spike between July and September, six cases of human rabies were laboratory confirmed in eThekwini Metro. The dead included three children, according to the provincial department. Rabies is a virus-borne disease that affects all mammals and can be transmitted from animals to humans through the saliva of infected animals via licks, scratches and bites. Speaking about the disease, Durban & Coast SPCA’s Tanya Fleischer said people should be on the lookout for any behavioural changes, for example if wild animals appear tame, or domestic animals start showing signs of aggression. Fleischer said while rabies is preventable disease, it is incurable, and asked pet owners to vaccinate annually against rabies. She said the first vaccination is at three months old, and then every 12 months thereafter. She said rabies vaccinations are free from any state veterinary office or for a small fee at SPCA, as well as being available at private vets.