Newcastle’s local leaders plan to position the town in northern KwaZulu-Natal as a premier tourism destination with the focus on events, natural assets and cultural heritage under the revised Amajuba Tourism Strategy, said Tourism KZN. Amajuba district mayor Dr Musa Ngubane said the town has seen an increase in township hospitality businesses, which provide jobs and a variety of experiences for visitors. Newcastle is the home town of reggae star Lucky Dube, disc jockey DJ Sihle and soccer players Helman Mkhelele and Deli Mbatha. Ngubane said Newcastle’s tourism sector lost more than R115 million during hard lockdown in 2020. He said the district was adjusting to the new travel patterns now that holidaymakers are looking for outdoor experiences. Outdoor sports like golfing, hiking, fly-fishing, motor sports, birdwatching, boating, are encouraged. “We have short- and medium-term interventions, including renovating and diversifying the tourism offerings at Balele Game Park and revamping the Emadlangeni Municipality Tourism Information Centre,” the mayor said.  The regional airport in Newcastle has been upgraded with plans to be developed into a Techno Hub. “We found it was critical to engage the private sector. We have some exciting projects in the pipeline which will help to build the sector as the critical location of the town allows us to explore various options,” Ngubane said. Samkelisiwe Yende, speaker of the Newcastle Municipality, said the key to tourism’s recovery was to broaden the region’s marketing strategy. “As a municipality, we are planning a video to promote what Newcastle can offer. While Newcastle is not your traditional tourist destination, it does attract a lot of business tourism,” she said. READ | KZN tourism sector appeals to South Africans to visit Hiking expert and head of Hike­obics, Tsebiso Maruping, confirmed that with lockdown regulations in place, there had been an increased demand for outdoor activities, especially among visiting businessmen. “People don’t want to be cooped in their homes. They want to go outdoors, so hiking gives them that mental stimulation,” said Maruping, who led a hike through the mountains on Friday morning with Gagasi FM disc jockeys, Khulekani Mbambo and Zisto Mhlongo. After a morning hike, the mayor and the DJs took to the greens to demonstrate their golfing skills, with the rolling mountains providing the perfect backdrop.