Three people, including two children and a woman, were killed and at least 17 others were injured in a head-on collision involving two taxis on the R61 between Ramsgate and Southbroom, near Port Shepstone in KwaZulu-Natal, on Friday morning. Robert Mckenzie, spokesperson for KZN EMS, said paramedics treated 17 people who were critically injured at the scene. Mckenzie said the road was still closed off to traffic on Friday morning as emergency serviced were still cleaning the scene. In a separate accident, the KZN Transport Department said an
Isuzu light delivery vehicle collided head-on with a Nissan SUV X-Trail on the
N2 in Beestekraal, in which two people were killed. KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Transport, Community Safety and
Liaison, Ms Neliswa Peggy Nkonyeni, expressed her heartfelt condolences to the
families and friends of five people. MEC Nkonyeni said in order to reduce road crashes and
fatalities especially in the lead-up to the Easter period due to the expected
influx of vehicles to our province, law enforcement agencies will be conducting
multi-disciplinary operations targeting high accident hotspots, events and
liquor outlets. “We send our sincere condolences to families, friends and
relatives of the five people who died in the horrific crashes this morning
which took place in a matter of four hours. We need to implement innovative
interventions to reduce the carnage on our provincial roads. “We will do all we can to play our part as government, but
we also urge motorists and our people to take collective responsibility in
ensuring the safety of all road users because one death is one too many. “Highly visible law enforcement operations have been
intensified on all major routes with the focus on drunken driving, speeding,
overloading, unroadworthy vehicles, driving without licences, reckless and
negligent driving. We wish the injured passengers who were rushed to hospital a
speedy recovery,” said Nkonyeni. MEC Nkonyeni also urged motorists to drive with extra
caution in order to reduce the number of accidents and fatalities on the
provincial roads. “So far no major accidents resulting in multiple fatalities
on our roads have been reported but we are concerned by the high number of
crashes that occurred especially on N3 and N2. We appeal to motorists and
pedestrians to continue to exercise extreme caution and call upon all road
users to remember to adhere to the rules of the road,” said Nkonyeni. 