MyLife Dusi Canoe Marathon organisers have warned spectators not to come anywhere near the race route, and instead watch paddlers make their way to Durban from their own homes, due to Covid 19 regulations. A plan is, however, in place to make sure that supporters don’t miss out on what promises to be a tough but entertaining race. “What we have done this year, is that we’ve partnered with Finish Time and they’ve got a great app that will allow spectators that are not allowed to be at the event to feel like they are at the event,” said race organiser Shane le Breton. “The app is called Sportsplits and people can download it on their phones, and from there they can go to the MyLife Dusi tab to enjoy the race. They can follow the paddlers that they like, track them down the river. We will also run our own Instagram and Facebook stories as well.” This year’s Dusi, which has attracted more paddlers than last year’s, starts at Camps Drift in Pietermaritzburg on Thursday morning. The 120-km three-day race will finish at the Blue Lagoon in Durban on Saturday. Due to strict Covid-19 regulations, spectators are not allowed, and Le Breton warned there will be a strong police presence at the race to make sure nothing places the event at risk of being called off. “No events are being allowed spectators. That has been publicly displayed and explained. We will be policing it too.” READ | Stronger-than-expected field for iconic Dusi Canoe Marathon No spectators are allowed at any points along the river, he stressed. “Police said they will have a strong presence at both Ernie Pearce Weir and MyLife Weir by YMCA. We’ve also employed more security to enforce the Covid-19 regulations, other than that seconders will be able to access points to assist paddlers,” he said. Le Breton said they had also sent letters to all schools in Pietermaritzburg that normally support the event, requesting them to adhere to the regulations, and they have responded positively. At least 780 paddlers are expected to participate in the race compared to last year’s 764 entries. With Covid-19 around, it was expected that numbers were going to be quite low for this year’s event as a result of pandemic-related finacial constraints. “I think with other sports codes like Midmar Mile and Comrades having had to cancel their events other athletes decided they will take the challenge of any major race that’s on the calendar, even if it’s not their code, just because active sportspeople want to be active,” said Le Breton. “As long as we are covering ourselves with regards to Covid-19 protocols ... I think we will have a successful event.”