On Saturday at 8.30 pm local time, Earth Hour will unite individuals, businesses and leaders from all over the world to shine a spotlight on the health of the planet. Renowned public figures, celebrities, youth organisations and businesses from across the globe will be supporting Earth Hour to draw attention to the nature and climate crises. Adding a South African twist is actor John Kani (environmentalist and the star of acclaimed films such as Black Panther, Captain America and The Lion King), who is lending his voice for a special video to be released on the day to raise awareness about the link between nature loss and human health. As the lights dim in homes and cities, Earth Hour will bring people together to put a virtual spotlight on our planet and the role people can play in global efforts for nature. With mounting evidence establishing a close link between nature’s destruction and rising incidences of infectious disease outbreaks like Covid-19, Earth Hour will be an opportunity to raise awareness about the importance of nature in a year when leaders will take key decisions on nature, climate change and sustainable development. “Whether it is a decline in pollinators, fewer fish in the ocean and rivers, disappearing forests or the wider loss of biodiversity, the evidence is mounting that nature is in free fall. And this is because of the way we live our lives and run our economies. READ | Turn off lights for Earth Hour “Protecting nature is our moral responsibility, but losing it also increases our vulnerability to pandemics, accelerates climate change and threatens our food security,” said Marco Lambertini, director-general WWF International. Eva Zabey, Business for Nature executive director, said: “Covid-19 has given us a stark warning of the risks, vulnerabilities and inequalities of our interconnected systems — and what’s at stake for everyone if we cannot mobilize action. “Leading companies recognise they need to act now to both cut greenhouse gas emissions and reverse nature loss by 2030. Earth Hour is taking place during a critical year, when world leaders are due to agree an ambitious global agreement on nature. “Let us use this symbolic moment to think about how we work together — across society, business and government — to change our course towards a nature-positive, net-zero and equitable future.” Many iconic landmarks — including the Eiffel Tower, Tokyo Skytree, Hong Kong’s Victoria Harbour, Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, St. Peter’s Basilica in Vatican City, the Colosseum in Rome, Rova of Antananarivo in Madagascar, UAP Old Mutual Tower in Nairobi, Sydney Opera House, Niagara Falls, Taipei 101 and Gardens by the Bay in Singapore —will be switching off their lights in a symbolic gesture of support on the night of Earth Hour.