A man who posed as a Facebook friend and lured a woman to a night of hell in 2018, faces a lengthy jail term.  This is thanks to the “sterling" work of a policeman who was gunned down earlier this month. Sgt Thamsanqa Mbedu died in a hail of bullets in eMpangeni on March 6. He was on duty at the time. Mbedu was shot 27 times and died at the scene. Mbedu was driving when he was blocked by a vehicle that was parked on the road. He switched on the blue lights trying to alert the driver of the parked vehicle to move but an unknown person came from behind the police van and had an argument with him. The unknown person then took out a firearm and shot Mbedu several times before fleeing. Mzwenhlanhla Ximba (26) appeared in the Empangeni high court where he was sentenced to life imprisonment and 18 years imprisonment for rape and another three years imprisonment  for kidnapping. KZN police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said that on January 14, 2018,a 21-year-old woman was sleeping in her room at the Makhweni area in Ntambanana when Ximba, who was known to her,  forced his way in and threatened her with a knife. He raped her at knife point and told her  not to  tell anyone about the ordeal. The woman opened a case of rape at the Ntambanana police station and the docket was transferred to Empangeni Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit for further investigation. Ximba was arrested and appeared before Ngwelezane Magistrate’s Court where he was granted bail. “While Ximba was out on bail, he kidnapped and raped another 24-year-old woman. He was arrested on the next day at his home on charges of rape and kidnapping,” said Gwala. On February 17, 2020, this woman had received a phone call from Ximba “who posed as Mbali a friend from Facebook”. Ximba called her and told her he had found a job for her and she must come to Ntambanana where the company is based. “Out of excitement the victim wasted no time, packed her clothes, she left Durban and proceeded to Ntuthunga area in Ntambanana where she was going to be meeting Mbali. On arrival at the bus stop she called Mbali and the phone was answered by Ximba who pretended to be Mbali’s brother.” He told her that Mbali had gone shopping and promised to tell her as soon as she comes back. She called Mbali several times but the phone went straight to voicemail. The woman waited until 9pm but was starting to get scared since she was in unknown territory. “She was relieved when she was approached by Ximba who told her that she was sent by Mbali to fetch her.” While they were walking, she noticed that Ximba was taking her towards the bushes. When she questioned him, he became aggressive. “He dragged her into the bush, strangled her until she lost consciousness and raped her until the morning.” When she regained consciousness she was shocked to find him staring at her with her clothes in his hands. He told her to dress and  follow him. Fearing for her life she did as instructed and followed him to his home at Ntuthunga area where he raped her again. She managed to escape and went straight to Ntambanana police station where charges of rape and kidnapping were opened for investigation. “The docket was transferred to Empangeni Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit (FCS) for further investigation. Ximba made several court appearances at Empangeni Regional Court where he was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment and 18 years imprisonment for two counts of rape and three years for kidnapping. The sterling investigation was conducted by the late Sergeant Thamsanqa Mbedu who was killed earlier this month.” The Acting Provincial Commissioner for KwaZulu-Natal, Major General Thulani Gonya welcomed the sentence handed to the rapist. “This sentence will serve as a warning to other criminals who are targeting defenceless women that they will receive harsher sentence in court. It is heart-breaking that the life of the late Sergeant Mbedu was cut short before he can celebrate the sentence that was secured through his hard work,” he said.  