The Malinga family in Imbali Unit 3 want answers after a young family member was shot dead and his body burnt. They also want people to stop sharing images of his body on social media. The body of Sanele Malinga (27) body was discovered by community member on Monday morning lying on the road next to KwaPata Clinic. Family members who spoke to The Witness but did not want to be named said they last saw Malinga on Sunday afternoon when he left the house to visit his friends in the area. They also called him at around 8 pm that night to check up on him and he was okay. Prior to Sunday, he had not left the house for the past three weeks as he was spending time with his family. “The police came to our house on Monday morning to inform us and took his father with them to identify him. “Even though his upper body was burnt his dad managed to identify him because his face was still recognisable and the clothes that he was wearing also helped a lot in making it easier to identify him,” said one family member. She said they still do not know why he was killed and they are shocked by the incident. “He did not deserve to die like that, no matter what the situation was. We want to know what happened and why was he killed in this manner. “We know that it will not change what happened but we believe that knowing the truth will help us get closure. We are just left with a lot of unanswered questions and that hurts. “The only thing that we have heard is that he was last seen next to a popular tavern in Imbali Unit J just before 11 pm on Sunday and that was it. “Why would you shoot someone and burn them after?” The family said although they are devastated, they take comfort that they found his body and will be able to give him a dignified funeral. They described Malinga as a fun-loving person who was full of jokes and loved by a lot of people. The family also raised their concerns about the people who are sharing pictures of Malinga’s body on social media. “It is so heartbreaking. We are already traumatised by the incident, what people are doing is being insensitive and they are making things very difficult for us. We are even scared to go to social networks now because we do not want to [see] these pictures that they keep posting. We do not know what people are hoping to achieve by sharing these pictures.” Plessislaer police spokesperson Sergeant Sfiso Gwala said the body was discovered by community members at around 7 am on Monday who then reported the matter to the ward councillor. No one has been arrested.