The South African Farmers Development Association (Safda) handed over a spiller farm machine to the Makhathini leadership farmers at the Port of Durban on Tuesday. The spiller, which is a machine used in sugarcane farming, is a result of a plea that was made by the farmers to the Department of Agriculture, Land Reform and Rural Development (DALRRD) after Tongaat Hulett Sugar (THS) could not be able to continue with the road transport subsidy for the Makhathini small scale farmers. The department agreed to fund the operation of Mkhuze siding to a tune of R30 million to support small-scale farmers for the transport of cane by rail to the Felixton mill, increasing cane throughput to the sugar mill. The Mkhuze rail siding project will assist about 1 900 Makhathini small-scale farmers who have been struggling for some time. Safda said jobs will be created during both the construction and operation of the project. Construction jobs will also be created as the project moves forward with civil works over the next two to three months. Once building work is completed, operational jobs will be created for spiller operators, road weighbridge clerks, spiller and weighbridge cleaners, wagon cleaners, mobile cane loading machine operators, rail tractor operators, security, and a site supervisor. A minimum of 20 operational jobs is expected to be created at the Mkhuze rail offloading facility. Local businesses will benefit from civil, structural, mechanical, and electrical procurement, including building materials and steel work, machinery, and equipment (tractors, generator, excavators, bell loader, weigh bridge and office building materials) and lighting and electrical installation. Bosch Holdings has been appointed as the consulting design engineers to the project, and the design has been completed. Timing of the project is critical to the livelihoods of the Makhathini small-scale farmers, as the farmers need to shift from road to rail at the start of the 2021 sugar season, so that their cane is not left stranded in Makhathini. The project will support a reduction in the volume of trucks on the road especially on the N2, north of Richards Bay, to the Jozini off ramp, which is single lane each direction. The Makhathini sugarcane farmers, more than 1 900 of which, are currently transporting their cane by road to the Felixton sugar mill and are currently paying R170 per ton with the rest of the costs covered by THS subsidy. With the new transloading station, their total costs will reduce to R112 per ton. With approximately 117 000 tons of sugarcane from Makhathini currently per year, this equates to a total saving of R6.8 million per year for these small-scale farmers. Over time, as cane production potential increases, the Makhathini farmers, delivering 350 000 tons using the new transloading facility, could save R16 million per year.