The Durban University of Technology has decided to extend the current registration period for first year students by a further two weeks. DUT said in a statement its Executive Management Committee (EMC) and the Senate Executive Committee (Senex) convened a joint meeting to discuss matters related to student registration and the revised 2021 academic calendar last week. “The University is concerned about the lower-than-expected number of students registered so far. Whilst several returning students have successfully completed the online registration process, the registration numbers for first time entry (FTEN) students are below the projected levels. “Due to the registration challenges, EMC and Senex approved the proposal to extend the current registration period by two weeks, to now end on Friday March 26,” DUT said in a statement. Based on merit relevant university officers may grant permits to students who had challenges to gain access to registration facilities. “As a result of the COVID-19 restrictions and protocols, DUT will not allow any unannounced visits and access, without permits having been granted in advance. DUT will not be accepting walk-ins since applications for admission in 2021 closed last year. “Those students who will be granted permits to access registration facilities will need to adhere to the COVID-19 public health guidelines,” said Alan Khan, DUT’s Senior Director of Corporate Affairs. These include compulsory use of face masks, observing social and physical distancing guidelines and using the HealthCheck online screening form before arriving on campus. “The DUT Finance Department and the Financial Aid Department are both working diligently to help expedite the process of unblocking qualifying, returning students. The University had previously submitted the entire list of FTEN students to NSFAS, seeking feedback on the confirmation status of the applicants who require funding support. As has been the case since about 2018, the University can only allow students to register once their funding status has been confirmed by NSFAS. Those applicants who may be affected by this, will not forfeit their firm offer as a result of the NSFAS delay. With regard to returning students, all returning and qualifying NSFAS funded students (based on assessment of their eligibility for further NSFAS funding in 2021) will be unblocked, irrespective of whether they have fees outstanding as a result of non-payment by NSFAS,” said DUT. The meeting also agreed on amendments to the 2021 Academic Calendar including that: * Online lectures for annual and first semester programmes will commence on Monday, March 29. * The 4th term will be extended by four days, from December 20 to December 24. *The closure of the University has now been extended by a week, from December 17 to December 24. TEXT BOX: The University said all first time entry students who may be experiencing challenges related to online registration must report them to the Department of Student Admissions on 0313735005. Alternatively, to contact Student Admissions via WhatsApp using one of these numbers: 0834451282, 0834460459, 0834541495, 0834543477, 0834516751 or 0834413766. First year students can email: 1styrstudentreg@dut.ac.za and visit the DUT website for guidance related to online off-campus registration: https://www.dut.ac.za/student_portal/student_registration/.