The organisers of the aQuellé Midmar Mile announced on
Wednesday afternoon that they have been forced to make a last minute decision to
transfer the 2021 edition of the aQuellé Midmar Mile entries to the Virtual
aQuellé Midmar Mile event. This follows what itself was a late-in-the-day announcement
by Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife that they were turning down the Event Management Plan
for the 2021 aQuellé Midmar Mile despite many weeks of attempts to convince
senior management that there was no danger of the event becoming a super-spreader
of Covid-19. Race Director Wayne Riddin said: “It was brought to our
attention recently that Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife were not allowing events to take
place at their facilities, despite government regulations allowing events
within restrictions. “I personally requested an urgent meeting on several
occasions but senior management were not able to make themselves available. All
documentation was submitted to Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife, with written permissions
in place from the necessary authorities. We have been locked in negotiations
until yesterday, (Tuesday, 2 March), to save the 2021 event.” Riddin said, “We are devastated that we were unable to
convince Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife of not only our intent, but also our capability
to run Midmar Mile safely during the pandemic. There is no doubt that the event
was going to look very different this year as we made huge alterations to
accommodate restrictions in place. The protocols prepared and documented would
have been of the highest standard and, as is always the case at Midmar Mile,
swimmers’ safety comes first. “To have to inform our sponsors, participants and service
providers of news of this nature at this late stage is unacceptable and I offer
my heartfelt apologies to everyone who had put their confidence in us to stage
a world class event despite the challenges involved.” The Race Committee has received permission from Ezemvelo KZN
Wildlife to host the top men and women races on Sunday, March 7 and the 8 Mile
and 16 Mile Charity Swim events scheduled for Thursday, March 11 and Friday, March
12, at Midmar Dam. “We have just under 160 swimmers signed up to swim their 8
or 16 Mile events either at Midmar Dam or via the virtual platform,” explained
Riddin. “These swimmers have already raised over R500k towards six
major charities, one of which is Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife. This figure is set to
rise significantly as more funds roll in.” Riddin has organised the world’s largest open water swimming
event for 30 years and stated that “experience in this regard does not appear
to have been taken into consideration. The past 12 months has had event
organisers on their toes and ready to adapt. The Capital K open water swim was
successfully run in Nov 2020 at Midmar Dam as a test run for processes intended
for Midmar Mile and we hosted further open water swims at Cradle Moon in
Muldersdrift on 29 November and 21 February. Public reports of these events
sadly failed to make an impression on the senior management.” The organisers of the even said the race committee is
committed to making the best of a bad situation and to lessen the
disappointment faced by around 4 000 participants who were heading to Midmar
Dam over the next two weekends. “We had fortunately introduced the Virtual aQuellé Midmar
Mile for 2021 to accommodate the many overseas swimmers who would have been
unable to visit us at Midmar this year so it is this platform that will now
host all race entrants who would like that option. Our immediate concern is
obviously for those who are unable to change their arrangements and may still
arrive at Midmar Dam this weekend (6 and 7 March) to swim. We will at least
monitor the Midmar Mile course over the weekend for those who may now swim
their virtual mile instead,” said Riddin. The race committee confirmed that all paid entries into the
2021 aQuellé Midmar Mile will be transferred to the virtual platform at no
charge. Details will be publicised as soon as finalised in the next few days. All virtual entries will count for the 2021 aQuellé Midmar
Mile and will receive their medal in the post along with their racing swimcap,
their printable certificate and an official race result. Entrants who had
ordered Glodina towels and t-shirts will be contacted and delivery will be
arranged. Midmar Mile said they will also set up an online shop for all 2021
merchandise.