A Pietermaritzburg Safe City operator in co-operation with police on Wednesday came to the aid of an 89-year-old man who was robbed in the CBD. Safe City’s Lucas Holtzhausen said the robber was arrested and the elderly victim’s wallet with cash and driver’s licence were recovered and returned to him. He said the incident unfolded at about midday when a Safe City operator noticed two suspects who have previously been identified with crimes related to theft and common robbery in the Church Street Mall area. "The operator kept monitoring the suspects and at about 12.10 pm she noticed that they were accosting an elderly man near the old Hub Stores. They searched his pockets and removed what appeared to be a purse or wallet. Thereafter they fled through Timber Lane and down Langalibalele street. "Warrant Officer Manny Singh who is working with Safe City then proceeded to apprehend the suspects,” said Holtzhausen. He said while remaining in contact with the Safe City control room via two-way radio, Singh arrested the two muggers as they entered the New Taxi Rank at Freedom Square in the City. The policeman searched the men and found a brown wallet containing cash and the drivers’ licence belonging to a male aged about 89 years. “Also found in the wallet were small pieces with different cellphone numbers written on it." Holtzhausen said the men were taken to Pietermaritzburg Central Police Station to be detained. Whilst Singh was busy detaining them the Safe City Supervisor managed to contact the victim’s wife from one of the cellphone numbers found in the wallet and asked him to go to the police station in order register a case. On arrival he was interviewed by Singh and and he also positively identified the suspects as the same two men who had robbed him earlier in the afternoon. The victim, who is 89 years old expressed his appreciation and gratitude towards the SAPS and Safe City for apprehending the attackers. The two men were charged with robbery and detained. Holtzhause said Safe City appreciates the willingness of the victim to open a case against the robbers since it has become common that people do not want to do so hence criminals are allowed to roam freely. “Safe City also would like to warn the public to exercise caution when walking in the streets and not to engage with strangers who will use the opportunity to rob them of their valuables,” added Holtzhausen.