Two men were shot dead in the car park at Duzimed Medical Centre in Pietermaritzburg shortly before 11 am on Monday. Police spokesperson Sergeant Mthokozisi Ngobese told The Witness that early reports indicated that a man had consulted a doctor at the medical centre and then came out and got into a vehicle that was parked in the parking lot. “We don’t know exactly what happened but it seems as if they were ambushed there because both he and his passenger were shot. They died at the scene,” said Ngobese. “At this stage this is still a fresh scene so we will have more information later,” he said. Netcare 911 spokesperson Shawn Herbst said the men had suffered multiple gunshot wounds while seated in their bakkie. He said they were declared dead on the scene. As per members of the public who were on scene when the shooting occurred, Herbst said they believe it may be related to the taxi industry. As the bodies were being carried away into the mortuary van, the father of one of the men started crying, saying, “I have been warning you! Look now, look now”.Shocked bystanders watched as police cleaned the area around the scene at the parking lot. Attempts to talk to the men’s families have been unsuccessful so far. The final moments of the men have been captured in a dramatic CCTV video clip, which shows the whole incident and is currently being circulated on social networks. The video seems to be taken from CCTV footage from Duzimed Medical Centre's security cameras. The distressing 41 second video shows the bakkie parked in the parking lot with a man standing outside the passenger door. A woman walks past, and just exits the scene before the shooting begins. Two gunmen are seen crossing Boshoff Street walking towards the medical centre's gate in Burger Street. A shot is then fired by one of the men through the palisade fence, shattering the car's passenger door window. The man standing next to the car falls to the ground on his stomach immediately. It's not clear whether he was hit at that stage. The two gunmen run into the carpark and another gunman runs from up Burger Street to join them in a clearly co-ordinated move. The three gunmen are seen shooting both the man lying on the ground and the other one seated in the car multiple times. They then run out of the medical centre and flee down Burger Street on foot. This is a developing story. 