Tributes have poured in for King Goodwill Zwelithini who passed away on Friday. In an announcement on Friday morning from Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, he said that his Majesty King Goodwill Zwelithini ka Bhekuzulu, King of the Zulu Nation's "health took a turn for the worse and he subsequently passed away in the early hours of this morning". Zwelithithi, who was 72, spent several weeks in hospital following complications related to his diabetic  condition before passing away in the early hours of Friday. "Tragically, while still in hospital, His Majesty's health took a turn for the worse and he subsequently passed away in the early hours of this morning," he said. "On behalf of the Royal Family, we thank the nation for your continued prayers and support in this most difficult time. May His Majesty our King rest in peace." The King's death follows that of his son Prince Lethukuthula Zulu. Read that story here President Cyril Ramaphosa Meanwhile, President Cyril Ramaphosa expressed his deep sadness at the death of King Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu on Friday. “This sad news come at a time when we had all been hopeful that his majesty was recovering well in hospital where he had been over the past few weeks,” the President said. “His majesty will be remembered as a much loved, visionary monarch, who made an important contribution to cultural identity, national unity and economic development in KwaZulu-Natal and through this, to the development of our country as a whole.” Ramaphosa offered his sympathies and prayers to the royal family, the Zulu nation, and to the people of KwaZulu-Natal and beyond, for whom the king was an important symbol of history, culture and heritage. Provincial House of Traditional Leaders The traditional leadership in KwaZulu-Natal said they had lost "a pillar of strength, proponent for peace and stability and a major source of wisdom". The sentiments from the Chairperson of the Provincial House of Traditional Leaders (PHTL), Inkosi Phathisizwe Chiliza, came amid the announcement of the passing of King Goodwill Zwelithini in the early hours of the morning. According to Chiliza, the traditional leaders are reeling from the tragic passing of the Zulu Nation’s longest-serving monarch. “We are shocked to the core by the news announced this morning by the Prime Minister of the Zulu Nation, Inkosi Mangosuthu Buthelezi. We are also still coming to terms with passing of the father of our nation,” said Chiliza. He said King Goodwill Zwelithini has since his coronation in 1971, been a pillar of strength for traditional leaders throughout the province; an advocate for peace and stability even during the most tumultuous and bloody periods in the province and also a source of wisdom for the institution of traditional leadership. Chiliza said the PHTL had been hoping for some time that the King’s medical condition would stabilize and that he would soon be out of the hospital in which he was receiving medical treatment. “We had been hopeful for some time that ‘Ngangezwe Lakhe’ would recover and continue to be the guiding light of the Zulu Nation but unfortunately the Almighty had other plans for him. We are very saddened and shattered by the loss of our King.” In addition, Chilizwe conveyed his heartfelt sympathies to the Zulu Royal Household and to the Zulu Nation. “We wish the Royal Household and the Zulu Nation strength and courage during this difficult period,” said Chiliza. KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Legislature Speaker, Nontebeko Boyce on behalf of the KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Legislature, said King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu’s name will forever be immortalised by his good deeds and untiring endeavours for the welfare of not only his subjects, but all South Africans. “On behalf of the legislature, I extend my deep sympathy to the royal family and the entire Zulu nation on this very sad day of the untimely passing of His Majesty,” she added.“The legislature has benefited enormously from his warm, constructive and reciprocally valuable working relations it had with the king. “When we officially open the legislature at the beginning of every year, His Majesty provided solid and valuable guidance to the legislators and the executive on what needed to be done to improve the lives of our people.“The king was always frank with us the legislative sector and more importantly, he had the courage of his convictions.“One of those convictions was his unwavering belief that the legislature should not falter on its mandate of strengthening democracy as well as keeping a watchful eye on the executive arm of government.”Describing Zwelithini as a peace maker, Boyce said he always called for greater unity among political parties in the province as he strongly believed that tensions derailed the delivery of services to the people.“We have no doubt that the collegiality we have among political parties we currently have in our legislature is because of perennial guidance we received from His Majesty,” she added. “May His Majesty’s soul rest in peace.” The ANC The ANC described, King Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu as a “a courageous leader who did not only care about the well being of his people but rather the nation as a whole. “He took centre stage in calling for an end to politically motivated killings which had resulted in unwarranted loss of innocent lives, especially in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng provinces,” the ANC statement reads. “During intense political violence between the ANC and IFP, King Zwelithini was seen crisscrossing South Africa encouraging people to resort to peaceful and non-violent means of resolving conflict.“King Zwelithini will [also] be remembered for his tough stance on HIV/Aids, challenging the international community to avail more funding against the pandemic and South African government to provide medication to the people.” The ANC also lauded the Zulu king for his decision to sign a pledge to fight the scourge of gender-based violence, child abuse and human trafficking in December last year. “The ANC applauds the progressive role played by King Zwelithini in the development of his nation and for upholding the culture and traditions of the Zulu nation,” the party added. “King Zwelithini appreciated and understood how institutions of traditional leadership should co-exist with systems of constitutional democracy, an example worth emulating by other traditional leaders. “The ANC sends its heartfelt condolences to the royal family and the Zulu nation. May they find solace in knowing that their loss is shared by the entire nation.” Democratic Alliance Democratic Alliance leader, John Steenhuisen, said, “King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu has been a hugely important and influential figure on our political and cultural landscape for the past five decades since becoming king in 1968. “Our heartfelt condolences go out to his wives and children, the Zulu royal house and the Zulu people in this time of loss and grief.“May you find comfort and strength as you mourn your leader and celebrate his full life.” The South African Communist Party The South African Communist Party (SACP) in the Moses Mabhida province (KwaZulu-Natal) described King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu as “a champion for peace”. Responding to the news of the king’s death in the early hours of Friday morning, the party said, in a statement, that is was both shocked and saddened. “His majesty, just like his predecessors played a massive role in keeping the Zulu people together and was a champion for peace and preservation of the Zulu culture and traditions,” the SACP said. “His majesty will be remembered for encouraging rural communities to be self-reliant and make use of land by embarking on agricultural projects.” The SACP also praised the Zulu royal family for the critical role it had played — alongside the Bapedi, AmaXhosa, VaVenda, Basothos and Tswanas — in fighting colonialism and the dispossession of indigenous Africans of their land. “As the SACP in the Moses Mabhida province we send our deepest condolences to the monarch’s family, including Ondlunkulu, Amazinyane eSilo kanye nabo bonke ubukhosi nabantu bakwaZulu [queens, princes, the Zulu traditional leadership and the public at large]. “May his soul rest in eternal peace,” the party added. ANC in KwaZulu-Natal Nhlakanipho Ntombela, the spokesperson for the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal, said the news of his death, on Friday, had caused members ‘great sorrow”. “The king was not only a highly respected man, he also held a position of most seniority in the royal house,” Ntombela said. King Goodwill Zwelithini ascended the throne in 1971, making him the longest serving monarch in the history of the Zulu nation.“He revered the culture of AmaZulu and he contributed in the restoration of the culture and indigenously values of the Zulu nation,” Ntombela said. “The king revived number of imikhosi, which includes the Umkhosi Womhlanga and Umkhosi wokweshwama, which ultimately improved the tourism industry in the province. “The king was a champion of peace and reconciliation. He played a leading role in peace initiatives between the warring factions in the province.” Offering his condolences to the royal family, Ntombela reaffirmed the party’s commitment to the bonds of friendship and co-operation between the ANC in the province and the royal house. “The ANC KZN values a strong relationship with the royal family, which goes back to the contribution of Queen Thomo in liberation struggle. The queen, mother of Isilo Samabandla [the king] was a staunch member of the ANC,’’ Ntombela added. The death of Zwelithini comes at a time when the family is still recovering from the death of Prince Lethukuthula Zulu. “We wish the family strength in these trying times,” Ntombela said. “We hope and pray that the royal family and the entire Zulu nation will find comfort from the Lord during this time of mourning.” Freedom Front Plus Freedom Front Plus leader, Dr Pieter Groenewald, expressed his sadness at the news of the death of the King. “I had personally met King Zwelithini and found him to be a friendly and honourable man,” he added. “He was a true South African who was unashamedly proud of his Zulu heritage.” Expressing the condolences of members of his party, he said the king’s loved ones and the Zulu nation would be in his prayers during this difficult time. 