Today marks the 60th anniversary of the All in Africa Conference held on March 25 and 26, 1961. This major historical event took place at the Arya Samaj Hall now known as Manaye Hall at Imbali. The venue was discovered to have been bugged by the SAP Special branch. The conference was in response of National Party’s intention, after holding a whites-only referendum, to proclaim South Africa a white Republic on May 31 of the same year, which would intensify policies of racial oppression against non-whites. The conference called for “one man, one vote” and coined the slogan “Amandla Awethu”. ALSO READ | Mandela in Imbali. on the eve of the conference and this allowed him to make a surprise appearance at the conference attended by 1 400 delegates from all social formations in Southern Africa. The conference marked the last time that Mandela addressed a public gathering as a free man before his arrest outside Howick on August 5, 1962. “We should emerge from this conference with the fullest preparations for a fully representative multiracial national convention. From this conference will come the foundation of a fully democratic government,” he told the gathering. This led to the formation of the National Action Council which called for a stay-at-home on May 29, 30 and 31, 1961, which received solid and massive support throughout the country. ALSO READ | Residents live in fear as spate of gun murders haunt Imbali, Pietermaritzburg. Manaye Hall is part of KZN Freedom Route, which was initiated by various KwaZulu-Natal tourism stakeholders to highlight freedom struggle icons such as Mandela, Mahatma Gandhi, John Langalibalele Dube, Alan Paton and Chief Albert Luthuli. Liberation Heritage tourism has emerged as an important part of tourism growth and local economic development in South Africa and we are eagerly looking forward to the completed physical development of Manaye Hall to represent this powerful narrative and catalysing township tourism. • Dumisani Mhlongo is the Director of PMB Tourism.