The Information Regulator (IR) South Africa has noted with
concern the statement released by WhatsApp, detailing changes that a user will
face if they ignore Facebook’s terms by the May 15 deadline. If users will not accept the terms, for a short time these
users will be able to receive calls and notifications, but will not be able to
read or send messages from the app. The IR has written to Facebook South Africa and provided an
analysis of some of the concerns that it has about the privacy policy of
Facebook as it relates to South Africa. For example, it is the IR’s view that
the processing of cellphone numbers as accessed on the user’s contact list for
a purpose other than the one for which the number was specifically intended at
collection, with the aim of linking the information jointly with the
information processed by other responsible parties (such as Facebook companies)
does not require consent from the data subject, but prior authorisation from
the IR. Accordingly, IR says WhatsApp cannot without obtaining prior
authorisation from the IR in terms of section 57 of Protection of Personal
Information Act (POPIA), process any contact information of its users for a
purpose other than the one for which the number was specifically intended at
collection, with the aim of linking that information jointly with information
processed by other Facebook companies. The IR has also raised as a central concern that citizens of
the European Union will receive significantly higher privacy protection than
people in South Africa, and Africa. “We are very concerned about these different standards that
apply to us; our legislation is very similar to that of the EU. It was based on
that model deliberately, as it provides a significantly better model for the
protection of personal information than that in other jurisdictions. We do not
understand why Facebook has adopted this differentiation between Europe and
Africa,” said Chairperson of the IR, Advocate Pansy Tlakula. The IR has indicated to Facebook SA that it is willing and
committed to have a round-table discussion regarding the issues raised to
ensure that there is full compliance by the WhatsApp Privacy Policy with the
provisions of POPIA and other pertinent international legal instruments.