As the Sharks big guns get ready to make a comeback this weekend, captain Lukhanyo Am has revealed that he’s quite impressed with how the side’s fringe players have performed in the Franchise Cup so far. The Sharks are busy with preparations for their clash against the Lions on Saturday at Ellis Park Stadium, Johannesburg, at 4.15 pm. This is the third game in the Franchise Cup, otherwise known as the preparation series for the Rainbow Cup starting in April. For the first two outings of the “friendly” tournament designed by SA Rugby Union, Sharks coach Sean Everitt sent out second-stringers while the regulars were busy with conditioning. The “B Team” did not disappoint at all as they brushed aside the Griquas 35-10 at home before narrowly losing 39-38 to a strong Cheetahs team away from home. Read more: Coach Everitt ‘to build something special’ after extending contract with Sharks Am is expected to take back the captaincy from Jeremy Ward, who did a stellar job in his absence during the past two fixtures. The 27-year-old Rugby World Cup-winning centre said it was pleasing to see the second-stringers display excellent understanding of the Sharks’ style of play, even though they haven’t had much game time in the first team. “They played amazing rugby, I was quite impressed with what they brought, the energy in their game and showing the DNA of the team,” said Am. “It was actually a great opportunity for the guys that didn’t get much game time last season. I think they managed to get a couple of caps underneath their belt. Even the coaching staff were able to see what they can offer. “There will be a lot of pressure with the changes and the guys coming in to try and keep that standard. “I think coach Sean, in the two games that we played, he saw that we do have depth in the squad and we definitely know what the guys can bring to the field.” Read more: Sharks’ Libbok delivers at No. 10 The B-team will now generally switch places with the first-choice players and go through the conditioning that Am and others have been through. “A lot of conditioning was done. We know that there will be a lot of rugby ahead this year, so we tried strengthening and improving the conditioning side,” he said. The Sharks are using the Franchise Cup to get to their best level ahead of their maiden Rainbow Cup, or PRO16, campaign. The Durban side’s fans are likely to see Springbok captain Siya Kolisi running out for his new team for the first time against the Lions on Saturday. Read more: Siya Kolisi ‘fitting in nicely’ at Sharks “He [Kolisi] has actually gelled in quite nicely. I think he brings quite a lot of energy into the camp and I’m looking forward to playing with him in the black-and-white jersey,” said Am. Everitt will announce his matchday 23 for the Lions clash on Thursday.