After staging a successful first virtual Comrades Marathon last year, Comrades Marathon Association (CMA) are hoping to do even better this year as they prepare to hold the ‘Comrades Centenary Hope Challenge.’ On Thursday, CMA launched and also opened entries for its second virtual event that is aimed at celebrating the race’s 100-year long history, at the Comrades headquarters in Pietermaritzburg. Comrades launches are normally big events, but Thursday’s event was only attended by a few people, including their sponsors such as Orange Grove dairy company, Hollywoodbets and a handful of media representatives due to Covid-19 protocols. This year’s virtual race will take place on Sunday, June 13 with runners running in their location of choice. Runners can choose their distances between 5 km, 10 km, 21,1 km, 45 km and 90 km. CMA were hoping to have bigger celebrations for their centenary, but things didn’t go according to their plans as they were forced to cancel the race for the second year running because of the deadly virus. READ | Update | Will the Comrades Marathon survive its second cancellation? However, CMA chairperson Cheryl Winn is confident they can still have fitting celebrations in spite of the actual race not taking place this year. “I’ve been getting a lot of phone calls from people around the country, e-mails from around the world asking when we are launching our virtual race,” said Winn. “There’s a lot of interest out there and there’s also so much loyalty for the Comrades brand. I think it’s something special, people want to be part of it.” The first virtual Comrades attracted at least 44 000 runners from locally and other parts of the world. What was remarkable is that CMA only had three weeks to put together the event, which gives them hope they can surpass last year’s numbers.  “Also, we learned a lot from our first one, if you remember last year, I think we launched on about the 24th of May or something,” said Winn. “We had three weeks and we were literally inventing the rules and things as we went along. We learnt a lot from that and this year we are more organised. I think it’s going to go really well. The runners out there are starved for something and I know a lot of runners have made their own arrangements and will be running in small groups. “They have created their own challenges. I think they want to be part of something that’s more real. “Of course, it’s still virtual but at least it’s associated with something they are familiar with, very important and inspiring to them.” Runners can enter the race on www.comrades.com.