Occupying a leadership position in the ANC in KZN has become so dangerous that its members need bodyguards to protect them from their own comrades. They have also had to carry their own water bottles to events out of fear of being poisoned. This was the view of former eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede who was speaking at the funeral of eThekwini Municipality councillor, Bheki Thabethe, on Sunday. She later posted her speech on Facebook. Thabethe, who was the Ward 98 councillor in eThekwini, died on March 29 after a short illness. Speaking at the funeral Gumede said the ruling party was “going through difficult times”.   In 2019 Fawzia Peer, who served as the eThekwini deputy mayor at the time, was allegedly given a bottle of water laced with paraffin during a meeting. She had to be rushed to hospital as she apparently only realised what had happened after taking a sip of the water. Gumede said that councillors and branch leaders had become fearful of going home after meetings yet received no protection. “When councillors and branch leaders are afraid to go home after meetings because killers have adopted a cruel practice of killing our comrades in front of their families. When it is easier and fashionable to protect FW De Klerk, who said apartheid was not a crime against humanity, but you cannot listen and protect your own comrades,” Gumede said. She also spoke out against those whom she said continue aiding and abetting the enemy without facing the consequences. Gumede said this appeared to be fashionable however she had not gotten the memo. “Maybe the people we thought are part of the enemy are no longer the enemy. Maybe they signed the right business deal or found the right business partners and all their sins were forgiven. But we were not told,” she said. Gumede added that these were all things that went against Thabethe’s beliefs. She described Thabethe as a well-rounded and grounded leader. Gumede is among 20 people facing corruption charges involving R430 million linked to the Durban solid waste tender corruption case. They have been charged with 2789 various charges of fraud and corruption. The matter is expected to be back in court in June.