Messages of condolences on Friday afternoon continued to
pour in following the passing of Zulu nation Regent, Queen Mantfombi Dlamini
Zulu. The ANC in KwaZulu-Natal described Queen Dlamini Zulu, who
passed away at a Johannesburg hospital on Thursday, as a leader who served
the Zulu nation with humility. “The Queen was a highly respected woman, as she held the
most important position in the Royal House, first as queen consort and the
regent of the Zulu nation. “She was revered by the Royal family, the Zulu Kingdom and
the entire South African community,” ANC provincial spokesperson, Nhlakanipho
Ntobela said. Queen Dlamini Zulu, who was initially admitted to a Durban
hospital before being transferred to a Johannesburg hospital, was appointed as
the Zulu nation’s interim ruler on March 24 following the passing of her
husband, Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu on March 12. According to members of the Zulu royal family, Queen Dlamini
Zulu has been unwell since 2020. The IFP said the passing of the Queen has created a dark
cloud over the Zulu nation. “We are saddened by the passing of the Queen Regent in a
short space after the untimely departure of His Majesty, the king,” IFP
president, Velenkosini Hlabisa, said. DA provincial leader, Francois Rodgers, described Queen
Dlamini Zulu’s passing as “tragic”. “The DA extends its heartfelt condolences to the Royal
family. Our thoughts and prayers are with them at this sad and tragic time. “We also extending our sincere condolences to the Zulu
Nation as a whole during this time of immense loss,” he said. Zulu nation Prime Minister, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, who
announced Queen Dlamini Zulu’s passing on Thursday evening, said the Zulu royal
family would be announcing preparations for the Queen’s funeral in due course. The
Provincial House of Traditional Leadership in the Province of KwaZulu-Natal
(KZN), under the leadership of Inkosi Phathisizwe Chiliza, also conveyed its
sincere condolences to the Zulu Royal family and the Zulu nation at large.