Plastic carrier bags and plastic flat bags must be made from a minimum of 50% post-consumer recyclate from January 1, 2023. And from the start of 2025, they must also be made of 75% of recycled materials and must comprise 100% post-consumer recyclate from January 1, 2027. Any person who contravenes the regulations could face a fine not exceeding R5 million or five years’ imprisonment. In the case of a second or subsequent conviction, the person could be imprisoned for up to 10 years or face a R10 million fine. This follows amendments to the Plastic Carrier Bags and Plastic Flat Bags Regulations, which have been published in the Government Gazette for implementation. The amended regulations were gazetted by Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment Minister Barbara Creecy on April 7 in terms of the National Environmental Management Act, and the National Environmental Management: Waste Act. The amendments emanate from the review of all policies affecting plastic bags in the country. Department spokesperson Albi Modise said the amendments focus on promoting circular economy and ensuring circularity by prescribing the design through setting minimum recycled content in a phased manner starting from 2023 until 2027. The recycled content or “post-consumer recyclate” material is used in the manufacturing process from material arising from waste generated by households or by commercial, industrial and institutional facilities. The definition of “post-consumer recyclate”, added Modise, refers to material generated by households or commercial, industrial or institutional facilities, in their role as end-users of the product, which can no longer be used for its intended purpose. It also includes returns of material from the distribution chain, as well as in-house scrap that already contains post-consumer recyclate content. In terms of the prohibition of certain plastic bags, the amendment prohibits the manufacture, trade or commercial distribution of domestically produced or imported plastic carrier bags and plastic flat bags, for use in South Africa, other than those which comply with the compulsory specification for plastic carrier bags and flat bags.