The Prime Minister of the Zulu nation, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, was by Monday morning yet to confirm rumours that Queen Mantfombi Dlamini Zulu has been admitted to hospital. The queen is the senior wife of the late Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu. According to sources within the Zulu royal family Queen Dlamini Zulu (65), who in March was appointed as interim ruler of the Zulu nation pending the installation of the successor to the King, was admitted to hospital last week. The daughter of the late eSwatini King Sobhuza 11 and sister of King Mswati, Queen Dlamini Zulu is rumoured to have been unwell in recent months. Prince Buthelezi’s spokesperson, Liezl van der Merwe, told The Witness that she was uncertain whether a statement on the Queen’s health would be issued on Monday. While Prince Buthelezi and the Zulu royal family are yet to confirm King Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu’s successor, there are rumours that Queen Dlamini Zulu’s eldest son, Prince Misuzulu Zulu, will ascend the throne as King Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu’s successor. Rumours about the queen's ill-health coincided with reports that members of the Zulu royal family are divided over how issues of  the King's succession should be handled. On Wednesday Prince Buthelezi castigated King Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu’s siblings, Prince Mbonisi and Princess Thembi Ndlovu, whom he accused of flouting royal family protocols by holding parallel meetings. “Unfortunately, this parallel process is being run without the authority or sanction of Her Majesty Queen shiyiwe Mantfombi Dlamini Zulu, whom His Majesty the King indicated should lead the nation at this time,” Buthelezi said. This was after Prince Mbonisi and Princess Thembi Ndlovu had appointed someone to assist Queen Mantfombi Dlamini in her duties as regent of the Zulu nation. The appointment was allegedly made without Prince Buthelezi and other royal family members being consulted. King Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu, who died on March 12 at the age of 72 at Durban’s Inkosi Chief Albert Luthuli Hospital, ruled the Zulu nation for almost 50 years, becoming the longest serving monarch on the African continent.