The City’s firefighters showed their compassionate side when they rescued an egret stuck in a tree in the KFC parking area at the Bird Sanctuary in Pietermaritzburg. Acting station commander, Nish Khan, and his team were called out at around 11 am on Sunday by Mark Lederle and his daughter, Melissa. “The bird was clearly in distress,” Melissa said. “These birds often get cotton, string and other litter stuck around their feet. “Then, when they return to sleep in the trees, these pieces of litter get stuck on the thorns of the branches and they can’t fly away. “We often see a few hanging having died from this miserable death.” Determined not to let this happen again, the Lederles called the Msunduzi Fire Department for help. The firefighters arrived within minutes, but soon realised that they would need a ladder truck to reach the Egret, which was about seven metres above their heads and surrounded by branches. When the engine arrived, three firemen went up and managed to catch the egret, which had twine wrapped around its leg. “Without help it may have died in a few hours due to dehydration,” Melissa said. “The fire department team were pleasant, did not laugh at our request for help, and proud to do the job. “We are so often aware of city systems that don’t work properly, but the help received from these members of the fire department was above and beyond.” It is the second bird to be rescued by the firefighters, who helped reunite a ring-necked parakeet with its owner in Northdale on Monday. As for the egret, it was taken to FreeMe Wildlife in Howick by the Lederle family. The bird was given a thorough check-up and fortunately suffered no significant injuries. It is now recovering in an outside pen. FreeMe is planning to release the egret in the KZN Midlands in a week’s time, saying it will be safer than returning it to Pietermaritzburg, where the urban landscape poses many dangers to birds. Pietermaritzburg’s Bird Sanctuary was once a safe haven for flocks of egrets, but when the area was redeveloped many of the trees, used by the birds for roosting, were cut down.