While the cancellation of the Rainbow Cup looks almost certain, the Sharks and other three top South African franchises will be hoping that the tournament happens against all odds, as the final decision is set to be made this week. News of South African premier rugby franchises, the Sharks, Bulls, Stormers and Lions, moving to play in the Rainbow Cup or PR16 were welcomed with excitement last month. However, at the weekend it was all doom and gloom when media reports suggested that the original plan has been scrapped and SA teams will no longer be part of the tournament. ALSO READ | We won the RWC now what? The Rainbow Cup faces cancellation due to the government’s Covid-19 regulations in the other countries SA teams have to travel to. The original plan was that the local teams would play each other in the first three weeks starting on Saturday, April 24, and thereafter travel to Bristol in the United Kingdom and quarantine for two weeks. However, the UK government was not quite happy with that. Sharks chief executive Eduard Coetzee said yesterday nothing has been confirmed, but they are waiting for South African Rugby Union’s (Saru’s) correspondence. “We don’t know for certain and are waiting on confirmation from Saru,” said Coetzee. Meanwhile, Sharks player and Springbok captain Siya Kolisi has collaborated with lifestyle brand Freedom of Movement (FOM) to launch a new limited shoe to fund sports infrastructure project in his hometown of Zwide. The new limited edition veldskoen named FOM x Kolisi Zwide, their unique interpretation of the iconic South African “vellie”, as part of a campaign aiming to pay tribute to Siya’s hometown in the Eastern Cape. In a statement, FOM said following the success of the first veldskoen launched in aid of raising funds to build the Mbekweni field, the new shoe range now includes the long-awaited black “vellie” available online or at any of FOM stores. “This is a very personal one for me. Growing up in Zwide is where all my dreams started,” said Kolisi. “Now, being able to make a difference is key as I want to ensure the story of the next generation is different from mine. “Being a part of this collaboration means a lot to me and I know it will help to make a significant difference in the community of Zwide,” the 2019 Rugby World Cup-winning skipper said.