Pietermaritzburg Girls’ High School laboratory technician in the science department, Manor Naidoo, will be retiring after 45 years’ of service to the school. She began her career in 1976 at a school that existed prior to democracy and looked very different to the school she is about to leave behind. She said that being at the school for such a long time meant that she had a front-row ticket to the school’s evolution which has allowed her to bear witness to the quality of the school, the staff and the pupils. “To be at this awesome school and to be surrounded by the smiles and happiness of the girls everyday, kept me enthusiastic and keen to see yet another day at the school.” Working with the physics and biology departments, Naidoo familiarised herself with the syllabus from Grade 8 to 12 and has seen various changes over the years. She maintains that, no matter the changes in the syllabus, she is always happy to see that the girls are intrigued by the sciences and are eager to learn. “I feel so blessed to have worked at such a beautiful place,” she said. Naidoo leaves behind an insurmountable legacy not only in her department, but in the school as a whole. She has seen thousands of girls pass through the corridors, got to see them coming back to school for their reunions many years later and has even worked with a few alumni who return as staff members. Her career is a testament to her dedication and commitment to the school. The principal, Andrew Graaf, said, “Manor Naidoo is a true Girls’ High legend having spent her entire working life serving our school. Such loyalty and dedication is rare. Naidoo remains passionate about ensuring the girls enjoy the sciences. “Having started in 1976 as one of only two persons of colour at the school, Naidoo has lived through four and a half decades of the history of our school. Over her career she has seen the end of apartheid and the transformation of GHS into the diverse multi-cultural place it is today. “We wish her health and happiness in her well-earned retirement.”  