Covid-19 has put a spanner in the works for SA's rugby teams to travel abroad and compete in this year's PRO14 Rainbow Cup.The Sharks, Stormers, Lions
and Bulls will instead play in a locally-based "Rainbow Cup SA".The decision, however, has no impact on the long-term partnership
between PRO14 Rugby and SA Rugby.  South Africa's four top franchises won't travel to compete against northern hemisphere opposition in this year's PRO14 Rainbow Cup, organisers confirmed on Wednesday. This is due to the heightened restrictions caused by South Africa's designation as a "red list" territory in terms of Covid-19 risk. Instead, PRO14 Rugby and SA Rugby will operate dual Rainbow Cup
tournaments with no cross-hemisphere fixtures. SA Rugby said in a statement that multiple options for the South African teams to travel safely to Europe and be based in the UK were explored but could not be put into practice. In its place a 'southern' tournament, called the
Rainbow Cup SA, will feature the Sharks, Stormers, Lions
and Bulls taking on each other over a double round of home and away
action over seven weeks. This weekend's scheduled fixtures have been pushed back and a new fixture list will be announced in due course. The 'northern' PRO14 Rainbow Cup will still
take place on the dates previously published with the fixtures involving the
South African teams removed from the schedule and opponents receiving a bye
week during either of Rounds 4, 5 or 6. This decision has no impact on the long-term partnership
between PRO14 Rugby and SA Rugby and more details about those plans and league
structure for the 2021/22 season onwards will be made public shortly. "This is a huge disappointment, but time had simply
run out," SA Rugby Jurie Roux said in the statement. "No stone was left unturned to try and find a solution
to the challenges - including basing our teams for 10 days in locations in the
Middle East or Europe. But the pieces of the jigsaw would not fall into place
in time to allow us to put those plans into action.” A wide stakeholder group, led by a working group
between the tournament team at PRO14 Rugby and SA Rugby, produced a long list
of various options for entry of the teams, base camps and high-standard medical
protocols across the past four months to cater for different scenarios. In total, 12 venues across the UK, Ireland and Europe
were considered as base camps for the South African teams to operate out of or
to use as a quarantine destination before entering the UK and Ireland. SA Rugby also explored another four locations separate
to this. Further, destinations in the Middle East were also explored as
potential hosts for fixtures involving South African teams. This process produced project plans for each venue to
include suitable training and accommodation facilities and charter travel
schedules under the constant guidance of a Medical Management Committee,
consisting of the PRO14 medical consultant, tournament staff and union Chief
Medical Officers. This group tracked the status of Covid-19 in the
various territories and advised on the strategic approach to governments at all
times. Throughout this process, PRO14 Rugby has had great
support of governments and health authorities in all jurisdictions. Martin Anayi, CEO of PRO14 Rugby, added: "A staggering
volume of work has been undertaken to provide a number of proposals and options
to accommodate this - all as we navigated the challenges of the second and
third waves of Covid-19 as well as the South African variant which constantly changed
the landscape we were operating in. "Among our unions, our own staff and SA Rugby there is
no more that could have been asked in terms of designing plans that were
medically sound, however, there has been no perfect solution found in time to
allow for South African teams' entry into our territories. "Whilst the outcome is clearly different from what we
had intended, our relationship and partnership with SA Rugby has been greatly
strengthened and enhanced by this experience. "We are looking forward to the two Rainbow Cup
competitions and in due course sharing our intentions about our future
partnership that will be boosted by the experiences and project-planning
involved to this point ahead of the 2021/22 season." The full fixture schedule for the PRO14
Rainbow Cup, including kick-off times and broadcaster information, will also be released shortly.