South Africans on Twitter were excited to wake up to the news that Pietermaritzburg-born actress Thuso Mbedu (29) is set to star opposite Viola Davis in ‘The Woman King’. Deadline News reported that though Mbedu’s highly anticipated series The Underground Railroad doesn’t bow for another couple of weeks, Mbedu is lining up her next feature film as she has come on to TriStar Pictures’ The Woman King starring Academy Award-winning actress Viola Davis. The film will be directed by Gina Prince-Bythewood, who most recently directed the critically acclaimed blockbuster, The Old Guard, reported Deadline. “The depth and complexity of emotional life, her authentic beauty, and regalness is potent. We were mesmerized by Thuso Mbedu. We wanted Woman King / Nawi to be the vehicle to introduce her on the big screen”  Viola Davis and Julius Tennon of JuVee Productions told Deadline News. ALSO READ | From PMB to the world’s TVs The Woman King is a historical epic inspired by true events that took place in The Kingdom of Dahomey, one of the most powerful states of Africa in the 18th and 19th centuries. Mbedu, who grew up in Pelham and matriculated at Pietermaritzburg Girls’ High School, was described as a generational talent. “Her craft, her work ethic, her depth, her passion inspired us all and I cannot wait to play. She is a warrior,” said Prince-Bythewood. Deadline News said that the International Emmy-Award nominated South African actress is already expected to be one of the big breakouts of 2021 as she set to star in Amazon and Barry Jenkins’ The Underground Railroad.  The project will bow on May 14 is based on Colson Whitehead’s best-selling novel, which won both the Pulitzer Prize and the National Book Award. Jenkins hand-picked for the part of Cora, one of the lead roles, making her the first South African actress to lead a US/International series. Already an established actress in South Africa, Mbedu has been nominated twice for an International Emmy Award for Best Performance by an Actress for her work on the South African series Is’Thunzi. South Africans took to Twitter to congratulate their home girl on her success. 