Satellite tracking devices have been fitted to a 20-year-old elephant and two white rhino orphans at the Somkhanda Community Game Reserve to ensure their safety. Wildlands, a programme of the Wildtrust, in partnership with the Aspinall Foundation and the Wildlife Emergency Fund (WEF) conducted the collaring operation at the reserve in KwaZulu-Natal. Staff first had to locate each of the ani­mals, using VHF trackers that had been fitted prior to their release. They were then darted from the air by experienced wildlife vet Dr Mike Toft. Mpilo and Makhosi — two white rhino orphans released back into the wild in November 2020 after two years of rehabilitation — were the first to be fitted with the state-of-the-art technology. The pair were also dehorned for their safety as there had been a significant amount of horn regrowth. White rhino are on the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature) Red List of Threatened Species and all the rhino at Somkhanda are dehorned to deter poachers. The second part of the operation involved fitting a new collar onto one of the last remaining big tuskers on the African continent. The 20-year-old elephant was translocated to Somkhanda Game Reserve, owned and managed by the Emvokweni Community Trust, from Tembe Elephant Park, to strengthen the gene pool of the current herd and contribute towards the conservation of these giants. Wildtrust chief executive officer Roelie Kloppers said wildlife management and protection was an integral part of the reserve’s conservation efforts. He added that it was also the highest priority for Wildlands as the organisation responsible for managing and protecting the biodiversity on the reserve. One of the fundamental components for successful wildlife management is to have a good understanding of species behaviour and habitat. Satellite tracking provides important insights and information when monitoring animal movements. The collars, which communicate with mobile devices via satellite, allow rangers on the ground to track the movement of the animals with much greater speed and accuracy. Kloppers said: “The new satellite collars will provide data that feed directly into the newly-implemented earthranger tracking system on the reserve, allowing management to collect real-time date on the recently re-wilded rhino and elephant. “Our aim is to expand this level of real-time tracking across all priority species on reserve. READ | Search continues for runaway hippo “We are extremely grateful for the continued support from Aspinall and WEF, making this possible for the community-owned reserve.” The collaring was funded by the Aspinall Foundation, an internationally renowned charity dedicated to protecting endangered animals around the globe; and the Wildlife Emergency Fund, an organisation that specialises in the rescue of animals in imminent risk of danger. “We are thrilled to be supporting Somkhanda Game Reserve as it is a shining light in community conservation, with Wildlands as their strategic partner. We believe that the collars will go a long way in protecting these incredible animals,” said Jean Nagiah, director of the Wildlife Emergency Fund. “The use of this satellite collaring technology is an effective approach to provide innovative solutions for maintaining and protecting wildlife populations and their environment within protected areas. “This innovation will help monitors and rangers better understand the range and movements of the animals at Somkhanda.”