Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng has stepped down as the
University of KwaZulu-Natal’s (UKZN) chancellor before the end of his term. The university said the Chief Justice has advised the Chair
of Council, Dr Letticia Moja and the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Nana Poku of
his withdrawal from the position of Chancellor of the University of
KwaZulu-Natal. Chief Justice Mogoeng was elected by the University Council
and appointed as the University’s Chancellor in August 2017, and his term was
only due to end in about four months time. Chief Justice Mogoeng was the third Chancellor to hold this
office at the University. He succeeded Dr Frene Ginwala and Dr Zweli Mkhize. In terms of the University Statute, the Chancellor is the
titular head of the University and presides over all congregations of the
University. “Chief Justice Mogoeng will be remembered in particular by
the university community for the several graduation ceremonies he presided
over, during which he conferred numerous degrees and awarded diplomas and
certificates,” said the university. The 2019 Spring graduation was the last in-person graduation
the Chief Justice was able to attend, during which he delivered the customary chancellor’s
address to the congregation. In the interim, and in keeping with the UKZN Statute, the
Vice-Chancellor and Principal, Professor Nana Poku, will perform the functions
of the Chancellor. Dr Letticia Moja on behalf of Council and the University
Community expressed their appreciation to the Chief Justice for his service to
the University over the last four years, and in particular for serving as a
sounding board for the Vice-Chancellor. UKZN said it will immediately commence the process of
appointing a new chancellor. A call for nominations will be made by the registrar
to all members of council, senate and the institutional forum, and council will
elect the fourth chancellor of UKZN at the June 2021 council meeting. The university did not disclose why Mogoeng has withdrawn
his chancellorship.