Negligence and overloading could have been what caused the deaths of 10 people who were killed in a tragic head on collision between a car and a bakkie on the R34 between Ulundi and Vryheid on Tuesday morning. Seven people were initially reported to have died in the accident, but the latest reports indicate that three other people succumbed to their injuries and died at the hospital, bring the total number of deaths to 10. Robert Mckenzie, KZN EMS spokesperson, said six other critically injured people were treated by paramedics at the scene before being taken to nearby hospitals. KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Neliswa Peggy Nkonyeni has condemned the reckless and negligent behaviour of some motorists following a horrific accident. Nkonyeni said the accident happened at around 11 am on Tuesday. She said a Ford Ranger carrying six people collided head-on with a Mazda 3 which was carrying seven people claiming the lives of seven people. Six critically injured survivors were treated by paramedics at the scene before being transported to hospital. Three of those six people later succumbed to their injuries and died in hospital. “According to preliminary investigations, it is alleged that the driver of the Mazda 3 failed to stop at a stop street. Although the exact cause of the accident is still being investigated, law enforcement authorities said reckless and negligent driving could not be ruled out,” said MEC Nkonyeni in a statement. The MEC made a plea to motorists to exercise maximum patience on the road so that they can arrive alive to their destinations. She said it is heart-breaking that this gruesome accident comes after the Easter long weekend where the province recorded 54 fatalities. “It was disturbing to learn that one of the vehicles involved in the accident was overloaded and it is alleged that the driver failed to stop at a stop street, which could be the cause of this ghastly accident that resulted in the death of seven people. “Through flouting the basic rules of the road, the driver displayed gross recklessness and total disregard for the rule of law as well as other road users. Human error and negligence are to blame for the increasing death toll on our provincial roads, which is a huge cost to the economy. Therefore, harsher action must be taken against motorists that violate traffic regulations,” said MEC Nkonyeni. MEC Nkonyeni expressed her heartfelt condolences to the families of the deceased and wished the six injured survivors a speedy recovery. The provincial government working with local municipalities will assist the families of the victims with funeral arrangements and psychosocial services. 