Sharks coach Sean Everitt hopes that his players have put all recent frustrations behind them and will be fully focused on ensuring the best possible start to the Rainbow Cup. The Sharks get the local version of the PRO14 tournament going with what promises to be a thrilling clash against the Stormers in Cape Town Stadium at 2 pm on Saturday. The encounter will see Bok captain Siya Kolisi facing his former side for the first time since his move to the Sharks, as well as the Stormers playing their first competitive match at the 2010 Fifa World Cup venue. Ironically, the Stormers’ last match at Newlands Stadium was also against the Sharks and brought defeat in a Currie Cup semi-final. In the original plan, the four South African premier franchises were going to be involved in a 16-team competition that was going to include exciting cross-hemisphere fixtures against European counterparts. But the original plan had to be aborted on the eleventh hour as local franchises couldn’t travel to the UK due to the heightened restrictions caused by SA’s designation as a “red list” territory in terms of Covid-19 risk assessment. Everitt admitted that period of uncertainty over the Rainbow Cup was quite frustrating for his players and last week they were informed a day before their opening match that things have changed. “It was frustrating for us, especially that we had prepared and finished our last training session for the Stormers last week because we were due to play them on Friday night, but we were told on Thursday that we are not playing,” said Everitt. “We were ready to rock and roll but unfortunately that didn’t happen. I think one thing that Covid taught us is to just take everything in our strides. There was nothing that we could do about that, it was out of our control. “Unfortunately for them [players] they had another training session on Friday instead of a game,” said the coach. The Sharks players and technical team were looking forward to travelling and playing against European teams rather than being subjected to another local competition. “That’s extremely disappointing for us and once again it’s something that can’t be controlled by us,” said the coach. READ | ‘The Tank’ expects ‘proper challenge’ from Stormers in Rainbow Cup opener “All the players were looking forward to travelling and obviously measuring themselves against the international rugby players in Europe. “We also thrive against different teams across the world so that we can measure ourselves and see where we at. From that point of view, it is quite disappointing, but hopefully we will get that opportunity in October.” Nonetheless Everitt said they have prepared well for the Stormers clash as they are looking for a fast start in the competition. The coach said the positive of not playing last week is that it allowed some of their players to get over niggles that they had picked up at training. The Sharks will miss a few key players for the match such as centre Marius Louw, young scrumhalf Jaden Hendrikse, Dylan Richardson, Dan Jooste and Murray Koster due to injuries. Experienced referee Jaco Peyper will take charge of the clash on Saturday.  