Work on the Retief substation got off without any glitches on Tuesday morning when a team of more than 60 electrical experts started the process of cutting over to the busbar. The busbar was erected after the December 30 fire which left residential areas, businesses and parts of the CBD without electricity for several days. It was built in order to bypass the indoor switchgear while keeping the affected areas powered up when engineers start replacing the substation’s indoor board, which was affected by the blaze. ALSO READ | Big project to fix Pietermaritzburg substations is underway For the cutting over to the busbar, the City put the Retief service areas under a 16-hour planned outage on Tuesday. Deputy Mayor, Manilal Inderjit, who is the chairperson of infrastructure services portfolio committee said there was no reason to suspect that residents and businesses would not have their power back by Tuesday midnight. “Based on the resources that are before us and the attitude of the staff – the weather also played a huge role to expedite the process because we were worried that it might rain – we will probably beat the deadline of midnight. “If we can shave off at least three or four hours, I think it would be a blessing in disguise.” ALSO READ | Another Pietermaritzburg substation goes up in flames Contractors, Eskom and Msunduzi’s teams were on site from the early hours of the morning so that they could be ready to switch off the affected areas at 7 30 am. “The cutting of the cables that were live has commenced and those will be rerouted. The laying of the cables has also commenced,” Inderjit said around Tuesday mid-morning. He said the work that had be to done was time-consuming and laborious but the team on site is up to the task and “there are no challenges in terms of human resources and also the equipment.” He said the aim of the upgrade is to ensure that the service area never suffers any other similar inconvenience where people were left without electricity for about seven days.