The opening of schools has been delayed for two weeks to reduce any possible pressure on the country’s already overburdened health system. Deputy Minister of Basic Education, Dr Makgabo Reginah Mhaule, said school management teams will return on January 25 and teachers on February 1 to prepare for the return pupils on February 15. Independent schools, including those who have already opened, are being encouraged to follow the government’s new recommendations. Mhaule accepted, however, that they could not insist on this as private schools often followed a different school calendar to government schools. The decision to delay the opening of schools was made following a meeting of the Department of Basic Education with independent schools’ organisations, school governing bodies, unions and the council of education ministers on Wednesday evening. Their recommendations were presented to the National Coronavirus Command Council, which met on Thursday. All those involved in the discussions had agreed, Mhaule said, that it would be prudent to delay given the intense pressure on hospitals caused by the second surge in coronavirus infections. “If we say everybody go back to school on January 27, and then we experience a massive contraction [of infections], what will happen?,” she added. “So, we said let’s work with the department of health and hospitals and see what happens.” The department also wants to try and establish the Covid-19 status of teaching staff. “When they report on January 25, we will know who is coming and who is not coming; who is infected and staying at home; who is a co-morbidity case. Then, they will register all those people who will be working … allowing us to plan,” Mhaule said. “It is not a case of postponing because of fear but because we need to take care of the lives of teachers and the lives of learners.” She confirmed that pupils at quintile one, two and three schools would be supplied with masks, in line with what was done last year and that government was working to improve access to online learning facilities for pupils, especially those in rural areas. Pre-schools and early education and development centres will be allowed to open before February 15, if they have the necessary Covid-19 protocols in place. Asked if parents would have to pay school feels for January, the department said this was a decision for individual fee-paying schools around the country.