The KwaZulu-Natal provincial government will establish a law enforcement unit to enforce immigration law in Durban following recent attacks on foreign nationals. Members of the Mkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) who have accused foreign nationals of running illegal businesses in the province, have been staging protests targeting foreign-owned shops. In a statement issued following a recent provincial cabinet meeting, Premier Sihle Zikalala said incidents of violence directed at foreign shop owners around Durban prompted the provincial government to act. “The Provincial Executive Council has resolved to approve the establishment of an integrated law enforcement team to focus on the enforcement of immigration, employment and trade laws in the Durban CBD,” Zikalala said. On Monday five people were arrested following a violent protest that saw three foreign nationals’ shops being torched in Durban. Zikalala said the establishment of the law enforcement unit was part of the provincial government’s attempts to stop the attacks on foreign nationals. “The Executive Council condemns the rampant looting and public violence against foreign nationals which also included South Africans who were victimised as they were mistaken for being foreign nationals. “The Provincial Government further appeals for engagement and peaceful resolution of any areas of challenges. Violence has never solved any problem in fact it is breaking the law,” he said. The organisation protecting the rights of foreign nationals in the country, the Africa solidarity network (Asonet) welcomed the provincial government’s decision to establish the law enforcement unit. “As Asonet we believe that such a unit will go a long way into protecting the rights of foreign nationals who are in the country legally,” Asonet executive director, Daniel Dunia, said. Asonet was one of the organisations which condemned the MKMVA protests which were often accompanied by violence. However, Dunia said Asonet's stance against people attacking foreign nationals did not mean that the organisation supported those operating illegal businesses in the country. “If there are any foreign nationals doing wrong things in the country our position is that the law should take its course. “Our view is that the proposed law enforcement unit will protect those foreign nationals complying with the laws of the land,” he said.