Almost R2 million worth of imported beer was intercepted before it could be driven from Durban to Gauteng for distribution. The KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and
Environmental Affairs, Ravi Pillay, commended the police following the
arrest of a truck driver who was found transporting approximately 1 890 cases
of imported beer. According to a statement from Pillay's office, on Friday afternoon, police embarked on an
intelligence-driven operation in Durban and intercepted a horse-and-trailer
truck transporting the caseloads of beer with an estimated value of R1.9
million. The alcohol had allegedly been loaded into the truck at a
depot in Sydney Road in Durban and was being transported to Johannesburg. After
being intercepted on the freeway, the truck was escorted to the Umbilo Police
Station in Glenwood where the driver was charged with the illegal
transportation of alcohol. “From the information that we have received from the police
it would appear that this was a blatant violation of the country’s Adjusted
Level 3 Lockdown Regulations. The regulations are clear on the sale, dispensing
and transportation of alcohol during this period. The law must therefore take
its course,” MEC Pillay said. While the regulations allow for transportation of liquor
under very specific circumstances, the truck driver failed to produce any
permit proving he had been granted permission to transport the alcohol. “We are dealing with a very dangerous pandemic that is
rising at an alarming rate. Many families have lost loved ones to the pandemic.
The nation is losing frontline workers on a daily basis.  Alcohol has been identified as the key
contributor to the spread of this virus and therefore any illegal sale of
alcohol would likely contribute directly to the spread of infections. We cannot
allow this to happen and we therefore commend the good work of the SAPS,” added
MEC Pillay. The MEC then urged businesses to conduct their operations
responsibly and adhere to the Covid-19 regulations. “We sincerely understand
the pain that businesses are enduring at the moment.  Many operations have ground to a halt because
of the pandemic. But we seek to save lives and livelihoods. The regulations are
in place not to punish businesses but to protect all of us,” continued MEC
Pillay. He added that government will continue to engage businesses.
“We will continue to work with all sectors that are in distress so as to find
solutions,” said MEC Pillay.