Former KwaZulu-Natal Transport and Community Safety MEC, Bheki Ntuli, who was buried at his hometown of Empangeni near Richards Bay on Thursday, has been described as a humble person who bore no grudges. Ntuli was buried following a special provincial funeral service attended by high profile politicians, including KwaZulu-Natal Premier, Sihle Zikalala and Transport minister, Fikile Mbalula. Addressing mourners, Zikalala said Ntuli was a “dedicated and humble servant of the people”. As Transport and Community Safety MEC, Zikalala said, Ntuli hardly spent time at home. “He was always on the road fighting crime and accidents. He worked around the clock to reduce gender-based violence,” he said. Ntuli, who succumbed to Covid-19 complications on Saturday, was actively involved in the liberation struggle. He lost four family members, including his mother, during clashes between ANC and IFP supporters in northern KZN in the late 1980s and early 90s. Despite the heavy price he paid for taking part in the liberation struggle, Ntuli worked hard to bring about peace in the province. “He became the epitome of peace and forgiveness,” Zikalala said. IFP national chairperson, Blessed Gwala, said despite the previous rivalry Ntuli and himself later worked together, including in the Transport and Community Safety Portfolio Committee. “I later came to accept that true friendship is not developed during good times, it is developed after people have fought. “We once jokingly said that should I die first he should attend my funeral and speak on behalf of my enemies and should he die first I should do the same. I can’t believe this is actually happening today,” he said. Mbalula described Ntuli as an “exemplary leader” committed to the improvement of the living conditions of the poor. “He was at the forefront of the struggle to liberate people from all forms of oppression. “The family is not alone in this pain, we all lost – we lost a servant of the people who taught us that principle is sacrosanct,” he said. Before his appointment as Transport and Community Safety MEC last year, Ntuli served as chairperson of the provincial legislature’s Transport and Community Safety Portfolio Committee for more than ten years. Affectionately referred to as Mphemba, Ntuli also served as the head of the provincial ANC’s peace and stability committee for more than 20 years. Ntuli, who died at the age of 63, was accorded a category one provincial funeral by President Cyril Ramaphosa. Other high profile people who attended Ntuli’s funeral included former KZN Premier Willies Mchunu, and current KZN Legislature Speaker, Nontembeko Boyce.