An imaginary organisation, the Stingy Men Association (SMA), has taken over social media with men from across the country sharing tips on how to avoid spending money on the women in their lives. The posts contain advice on everything from how to avoid paying a bill on a date, what to say when a woman asks for “a girlfriend allowance” and what to do when dealing with a slay queen. The belief is that responding with the association’s slogan “I will see what I can do” will help them get away with not giving in to those who ask for money. The SMA logo has a fist showing solidarity for their cause and a clause below which reads: “Give them nothing”. SMA also has “branches” in countries such as Malawi, Zambia, Swaziland and Nigeria. While most members of the South African Facebook group are proud of their stinginess others claim they are not stingy but they are saving up for lobola and they cannot do that if they continue funding the other activities that their women want them to pay for. Some of the members have also reported themselves when they went against the association’s rules. Imaginary disciplinary hearings have been called for men who have given women as little as R50. A man who posted a picture of a few coins he claimed to have given a girlfriend when she asked for money to do her hair, was bestowed “a boyfriend of the year award” by SMA members for his ultimate stinginess and commitment to the values of the association. Some of the members of the SMA who spoke to Weekend Witness said the association was like the imaginary annual men’s conference so people should not take it too seriously, but on a serious note, they are tired of being financially exploited by women. “Maybe some of the guys are really that stingy in real life but someone who is married like me has no choice but to give my wife some money even if she makes her own,” said Siyabonga Ngidi from Durban. He said for him the SMA is more of an entertainment outlet but he does agree with the sentiments that men should not be expected to solely shoulder the financial responsibilities in a relationship. He blamed the “blessers” for the sense of entitlement that some women now have. “There are women who expect men to pay for everything. They’d be making their own money but never even offer to pay when you are out on a date or cover their own expenses like doing hair…As a man you end up feeling like you are paying to be in that relationship,” said Ngidi. Ntuthuko Dlamini said they are taking back their power and refusing to continue being taken advantage of financially. “We are tired of people who feel entitled to our money so we’ll only give women money if and when we want to. We are also trying to curb the trend of gold digging where women treat us like cash cows.” Dlamini said there are many women who publicly claim independence but privately sponge off men even if they make enough of their own money. On Thursday one of the SMA’s self-appointed secretary general, Matamela Tshilidzi Austin wrote an open letter to President Cyril Ramaphosa warning him about the threat of the upcoming “exaggerated, spendthrift” Valentine’s Day on the fight against Covid-19. He recommended that Ramaphosa places the country on level 5 of the lockdown from February 12 to 15 with an emphasis on the ban of eating out on those days as well as the sale of flowers and gifts. He signed off by saying: “We give them nothing. Our money, our rules!” Any thoughts on this? Post your comment below. 