Partnering with the Mountain Rise South African Police Service (SAPS), community watch group, Assist Me Now has embarked on a mission to help the underprivileged in the northern suburbs who have been affected by the Covid-19 virus. Spearheading the campaign are business owners Sham Govender, Prenay Moodliar, Yusuf Asmal, Sherwin Maharaj and Shuaib Yusuf. They have all dedicated their spare time to the initiative. They are focusing their efforts to ensure that those experiencing the life-threatening virus receive proper nutrition and vitamin packs needed to aid in their recovery. They have been distributing meals to over 50 households a day that they have identified as being affected by the virus, as well as providing these households with vitamin packages. “We are a security group within the area and have partnered with the SAPS through various initiatives and with Covid-19 spreading throughout our area like wildfire we have decided to identify and target households that are struggling financially and physically due to the virus, by cooking meals and providing these to the families,” said business owner and volunteer Sham Govender. Sham says that all the meals are vegetarian so as to be inclusive of all religions due to the diverse nature of the various racial and spiritual groups within the community. He added that Covid packs that include various vitamins have been handed out as well to the community to help with their recovery process while they fight off the symptoms of Covid-19. The group have also been assisting the police in patrolling their areas to ensure that members of the community are adhering to the lockdown rules. “We are also trying to locate shelter for those who are not able to isolate due to the amount of people staying in their households,” said Govender. “People do not have a place to isolate and thus are affecting many members of their families, who are infecting others and creating a chain of events whereby many more people are being affected.” Govender appealed to the public to help them find shelter for the Covid-19 positive people who need to isolate. 