Price of ginger shoots after high demand due to Covid-19 If you’re a ginger lover, you may be wincing every time you buy it lately. And, if you haven’t bought the aromatic, warming root for a while, prepare for a shock. It’s price has more than quadrupled since around February last year. Two charged with running over ‘friend’ twice denied bail Two South Coast men, Reevek Ramlall (35) and Durell Govender (24), who are facing attempted murder charges for allegedly running over a “friend”, have been denied bail at the Port Shepstone magistrate’s court. Funeral parlours ‘working non-stop’ as deaths mount Funeral parlour owners and employees are being run ragged with their extra workload as they deal with the large spikes in deaths due to the second wave of the coronavirus. Pietermaritzburg driving instructor set up, robbed Police are urging driving instructors to be vigilant after a man was set up and robbed in Rajah Road when he arrived for a routine appointment. Heavy rains hits Jozini in northern KZN - Tropical cyclone Eloise not expected to be as severe as initially predicted Heavy rain hit Jozini, in northern KwaZulu-Natal, on Sunday afternoon but the South African Weather Service (Saws) said it does not expect more severe weather conditions as tropical cyclone Eloise has been downgraded to a tropical depression. Covid-19 claims life of Merchiston principal, Dave Beetar Tributes have been pouring in for Pietermaritzburg's Merchiston Preparatory School’s Headmaster, Dave Beetar, who died on Saturday night due to Covid-19 related illness. KZN’s disaster management unit neglected, says DA With a tropical cyclone expected to hit several areas in northern KwaZulu-Natal this weekend, the DA has accused the provincial government of neglecting the province’s disaster management unit. OPINION: Tarnished memories "A question by a reader regarding memories of Pietermaritzburg’s Azalea Festival got many of us nostalgic this week, remembering those festivals that were so loved before budget cuts, TV and a lack of interest by sponsors relegated them to the dusty archives of newspaper clippings and 'remember when' sessions," writes Stephanie Saville. Setback for Jacob Zuma, Thales Former president Jacob Zuma on Friday suffered another blow after the Pietermaritzburg high court blocked French arms company Thales’s attempt to have the case it is facing along with him squashed. Show us vaccine roll-out plan, KZN MEC pressed With a few days left before the arrival of the first batch of Covid-19 vaccine doses, calls are growing for the KZN government to release its roll-out plan. Pietermaritzburg IFP councillor Dolo Zondi dies from Covid-19 Msunduzi is mourning the loss of seasoned IFP councillor Dolo Zondi, who died of Covid-19-related complications on Friday. Tropical cyclone Eloise wreaks havoc as it passes through Mozambique The tropical cyclone Eloise is losing it strength after it made landfall in Mozambique early on Saturday, hitting the coastal city of Beira with huge gusts of wind and heavy rains, a South African weather official said.  