Family members of the four healthcare workers and a pilot who were killed when their helicopter crashed in Bergville on Thursday, KwaZulu-Natal, will be visiting the accident site on Wednesday. Netcare group CEO Dr Richard Friedland, said on Tuesday morning that a private visit will take place on Wednesday this week to the scene of the accident for the families of the fallen heroes who passed away in last week’s tragic helicopter tragedy near Winterton in KwaZulu-Natal. ALSO READ | Netcare helicopter crash: Sacaa investigators visiting site daily to collect evidence A convoy will leave from Johannesburg, transporting the families of the dead, as well as colleagues from Netcare and National Airways Corporation (NAC) to the site. According to Craig Grindell, managing director of Netcare 911, a special ceremony has been planned in close consultation with the family members of those who lost their lives onboard Netcare 1 on Thursday last week. “This is understandably an incredibly important and meaningful visit for the families and colleagues of our fallen heroes. It is a strictly private and sacred ceremony and we ask on behalf of the families, that their right to appropriately mourn in private is respected. The ceremony will only be attended by close family members and accompanying colleagues of the deceased from Netcare, Netcare 911, Netcare Milpark Hospital and NAC,” said Friedland. “To safeguard and respect the privacy of the families, and in close adherence to regulations regarding the number of persons who may attend events and to maintain social distancing, no media will be permitted at the event. A media statement providing an account of the ceremony, together with photographs will be made available to the media after the event,” he added. ALSO READ | WATCH | 'The suffering has been enormous' - Netcare mourns healthcare workers killed in crash Those who were killed in the crash were; Dr Kgopotso Rudolf Mononyane, an anaesthetist, Dr Curnick Siyabonga (Siya) Mahlangu, a cardiothoracic surgeon, and Mpho Xaba, a specialist theatre nurse for cardiothoracic and transplant, all from Netcare Milpark Hospital; Sinjin Joshua Farrance, an advanced life support paramedic at Netcare 911, as well as the pilot of the helicopter, Mark Stoxreiter who worked for National Airways Corporation. “In the days since the tragic event, we have continued to provide our full support and assistance to the next-of-kin of the deceased. As Netcare we carry the families and loved ones of our dear deceased colleagues in our hearts with love and respect and will ensure that their wishes are not only respected but carefully carried out during this extremely difficult time,” said Grindell. Independent investigation Dr Friedland concluded by stating that “Netcare and NAC can confirm that technical teams from Bell, the helicopter manufacturer and Rolls-Royce, the manufacturer of the helicopter’s engines, will be arriving in South Africa to assist with the investigation of the accident on Wednesday. As the operator of the helicopter, Bell’s Independent Representative and Customer Support Facility and Rolls-Royce’s Authorised Maintenance Centre for the region, NAC is giving its fullest support and cooperation to the South African Civil Aviation Authority, who has already begun their investigation.” 