Msunduzi’s senior manager for public safety, emergency service and enforcement, Kwenza Khumalo could soon be “temporarily” moving to work in his hometown, Richmond, if the City council agrees to release him and he wants to go. This comes after Mayor Samora Ndlovu wrote to Mayor Mzimkhulu Thebolla asking that Khumalo be seconded to Richmond to help fill the gap that was created by the recent deaths of senior managers in the municipality. In December Richmond lost the community services head, Bigboy Mhlongo, and municipal manager, Sikhombiso Mthembu, to Covid-19. “This has caused a huge impact as the functioning of the municipality is severely under pressure,” said Ndlovu. He said that on January 18, the Richmond council took a resolution to request Thebolla’s intervention through a secondment of Khumalo for his expertise in the director of community services position. He said Khumalo comes highly recommended and council hopes to restore stability within the community services department with immediate effect. The manager in Thebolla’s office, Sibusiso Molefe, has since compiled a report that is yet to come before the City council for its decision on the request. In it he emphasised the “importance to consult with the incumbent [Khumalo] to assess and ascertain their appetite to taking up the responsibility” in Richmond. On the financial implications that could arise from the secondment, Molefe said, another official would need to be appointed to act in Khumalo’s position for the duration of his secondment. He said: “The cost of secondment must be borne by the receiving municipality.” According to the local government regulation on secondments, the receiving municipality, in this case Richmond, must pay the seconded official an allowance equal to the difference between their current salary and the minimum budgeted salary for the position they have to act in. They must also be compensated for subsistence and travel costs incurred during the course and scope of their duties in accordance with the municipality’s policy. Attempts to get comment from Khumalo were unsuccessful. Khumalo was among the Msunduzi officials who featured in the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) report on the alleged overpayment of Khuselani Security and Risk Management (KSA) while it was contracted by the municipality. This led to the City bringing allegations of “gross dishonesty” against him. He is yet to clear his name as the July 2019 investigation on these is apparently still ongoing.