Two Durban detectives, were killed in a horrific accident involving a car and a truck at the intersection of Edwin Swales Drive and the N2 in Durban on Tuesday morning after the truck driver allegedly ran a red robot. Garrith Jamieson, spokesperson for the Advanced Life Support Paramedics, said at about 5.30 am emergency services were called to the scene where they were "met with absolute carnage". "A truck and a light motor vehicle had collided in that intersection. The truck had continued quite a while up the road where it came to rest on the Durban bound carriageway of the M7, Edwin Swales Drive,” he said. Jamieson said the two police officers were found dead in their state vehicle. It is believed that the police officers, a man and a woman were members of the Cato Manor detective branch and were on their way to work in a state vehicle when the crash occurred. Jamieson said the truck driver was treated at the scene and then taken to hospital. Motorists were advised on Tuesday morning to use alternative routes as traffic had backed up in the area. Acting KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Mr Kwazi Mshengu has called for serious action to be taken against the truck driver who allegedly drove through a red robot and crashed into a vehicle ferrying two police officers instantly killing them. The transport department said the preliminary reports indicate that the two police officers stationed at Cato Manor Detective Branch were driving on Edwin Swales Drive when their vehicle was struck by a truck which failed to stop at a set of robots. Both police officers aged 37 and 40 died at the scene. A case of culpable homicide is being investigated by members of the Bellair South African Police Service. MEC Mshengu has directed the police to fast-track the investigation into the cause of the accident so that the Criminal Justice System can deal with the culprit. “It is utterly disturbing that the truck driver allegedly failed to stop at a set of robots, which could be the cause of this ghastly accident that resulted in the death of two police officers. “Through flouting the basic rules of the road, this truck driver displayed gross recklessness and total disregard for the rule of law as well as other road users. We have the utmost confidence that the police will speed up the investigation surrounding this fatal crash so that the driver can face the consequences of their actions. “Human error and negligence is to blame for the increasing death toll on our provincial roads, which is a huge cost to the economy therefore harsh action must be taken against motorists that violate traffic regulations,” said MEC Mshengu. MEC Mshengu expressed his heartfelt condolences to the families of the deceased and said the police force has been robbed of two dedicated detectives who still had a lot to offer the police service. 