"We are witnessing death on a catastrophic scale that we have never seen in living memory."33% of those who died of Covid-19 in KZN recently had no comorbiditiesPremier announces plan to help with Pietermaritzburg's ailing electricity' In the past seven days, KwaZulu-Natal has recorded almost 30 000 new Covid-19 infections. At a media briefing yesterday, premier Sihle Zikalala said KwaZulu-Natal continues to rank number one in the country in terms of the number of active cases. The province ranks as the second highest after Gauteng in terms of the total number of laboratory-confirmed cases countrywide. He said the province recorded 40 deaths on January 16 bringing the total to 6 318 deaths. “This is a case fatality rate of 2.3% since the beginning of the pandemic. Quite notably, eThekwini Municipality has contributed 44% of the reported deaths. The median age for the deaths was 62 years. More than half of the deceased were female. ”Of these deaths, 4 826 (77%) had comorbidities. The most commonly recorded comorbidities among the deceased include hypertension (25%), diabetes mellitus (22%), cardiac diseases (5%) and RVD-infection (5%). The number of deaths with no recorded comorbidities increased to 28%. “Worryingly, these statistics are telling us that a whole 33% of the deceased patients had no underlying illnesses.” During the media briefing where this was announced, Zikalala asked for a moment of silence in remembrance of the MEC for Transport, Community Safety, and Liaison, Bheki Ntuli, “as well as many other fellow citizens who have passed away due to Covid–19 and other causes”. He said that during the previous first wave of Covid–19, “we thought we had seen the worst when we spoke about being ‘in the eye of the storm’ with the virus”. “But what we are seeing now is far beyond that. We are witnessing death on a catastrophic scale that we have never seen in living memory. Covid-19 is leaving a trail of lives that have been shattered beyond anyone’s comprehension. “Everyone is now living in fear that they, or their loved ones, friends or colleagues, might be next.” Zikalala cautioned those who are declaring on social media and elsewhere that they have “beaten” Covid-19. “Such statements are dangerous and perhaps even insensitive at a time when so many people are in mourning, having lost their loved ones. They are dangerous in a sense that they create a false sense of security that implies that when people recover from Covid-19, they will not contract the virus again. “We believe this is reckless because there is a growing body of scientific evidence and living examples that prove that it is possible to get re-infected.” Zikalala said KwaZulu-Natal was already planning ahead based on the dates for the arrival of the vaccine, as announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa and Minister of Health, Dr Zweli Mkhize. “We are putting in place a plan that will ensure that we roll out vaccines faster when they become available. Our starting point is education and awareness, and debunking the myths that unfortunately surround the vaccine because, for us, this will be an all-important race to save lives. We are increasing our testing and screening capabilities. “We are working on vaccination sites in all the districts of our province ensuring that they are in a good state of readiness. The Provincial Command Council will present the full plan in the coming days.”  GOOD NEWS FOR PIETERMARITZBURG “Provincial government is planning to step in to help with Msunduzi Municipality to supply electricity to residents. The intervention follows blackouts in the city caused by transformers exploding and catching fire and the ongoing theft of cables. Speaking at the media briefing on Sunday, Premier Sihle Zikalala, said he was “acutely aware” of the disruption the electricity outages in Pietermaritzburg and Hilton were causing to both residents and businesses. “We can confirm that this is receiving priority attention as the problem poses a threat to economic development and livelihoods,” he added.“In the main, the power outages have been as a result of ageing infrastructure and cable theft. “While the installation of new infrastructure is critical, we will also ensure that there is proper maintenance of the existing one. “The municipality is reprioritising its budget for this purpose and we have also sought intervention from the national government." On Friday, The Witness reported that vandals had opened the 11 kV links to switch off the pole-mounted transformer at the Bisley Nature Reserve.They then cut the cables they wanted, leaving residents in Bowler, Long, Gilbert and Kidwell roads without electricity for most of Thursday. Msunduzi is planning to spend R170 million on the refurbishment of the city’s elecricity infrastructure, with R80 million already approved. Work has started on upgrading the Retief Street primary substation, using staff from both Eskom and the municipality. It was made a priority after a fire left large swathes of Pietermaritzburg without power for more than a week.The Premier said MEC for economic development, tourism and environmental affairs, Ravi Pillay, had been engaging with representatives of various firms affected by the outages.