The shocking video clip being widely circulated on social
media, which depicts distressed hospital patients, is from Wentworth Hospital. In a statement on Monday afternoon, the department of health
confirmed this and strongly condemned the “filming and distribution of video
footage of any patients within the care of the Department, without official
authorisation, and the patients’ express permission”. “This is indecent, and tantamount to the violation of
patients’ inalienable right to privacy and dignity. Naturally, we are concerned
by circumstances that led to this situation, and are investigating this matter.” Read the original article here. The department said they became aware of the video over the
weekend “and immediately dispatched a high-level delegation of managers from
head office to establish the facts, and come up with an immediate resolution of
the situation”. They said they had established the following: ·      The patients who were filmed
were awaiting their Covid-19 results, also known as Patients Under
Investigation (PUIs); ·      On the day in question, the
hospital had received a particularly high number of patients; ·      Additionally, 11 doctors
were away in isolation, after testing positive. ·      A further 17 nursing staff
were off, due to Covid-19. Six nurses were in charge of the Accidents and Emergency
Unit, as well as a 28–bedded short stay ward with very sick patients. The department said a delegation from head office has since
assisted the hospital to ensure that patient flow is managed properly through
the following interventions: ·      Making alterations at
Wentworth Hospital’s Accidents and Emergency Unit, which has created space for
more beds, which will help alleviate congestion; ·      Sending recovering patients
to Clairwood Hospital, which has ample space, while those who need oxygen are
sent to isolation. Furthermore, we firmly believe the availability of COVID –
19 Rapid Tests will progressively reduce the time spent by patients who are
awaiting their results. “We have a serious and deadly pandemic on our hands, which
is now of our own making. “We sincerely appreciate the profoundly good work that is
being done by our tireless frontline workers, and staff across the board, to
help the Province square up to this pandemic. “We call upon the public to play their part and help us
fight this pandemic, by adhering to the safety protocols, such as wearing of
face masks when out in public; regular hand-washing with soap and water or
alcohol-based sanitizer; and maintaining a distance of at least 1.5 – 2 metres
between themselves and other people. “As a Department, we yet again make a commitment to continue
doing our best to render the best possible level of healthcare to the public
under prevailing conditions; to attend to challenges when they arise and act
speedily and decisively to address them; and provide our foot soldiers with all
the protection and other assistance that they may need,” the statement ended.