Teacher union, Sadtu, has called for the suspension of marking of matric papers at the Estcourt after one of the markers died and several Covid-19 cases were reported. They have also demanded rapid testing be made available for other markers there. The marker was rushed to hospital on Saturday where she later died. At least nine other markers who had close contact with her had to be isolated in a guesthouse. On Sunday the KwaZulu-Natal provincial secretary, Nomarashiya Caluza, said the centre has become a “highly compromised marking centre” so it must be deep cleaned and all the markers tested. “Sadtu is aware that the (education) department wants to postpone all this to Monday. We want to remind the department that it is all about lives first and as such they must prioritise that ... to avoid further spread of the virus,” she said. Nomarashiya said their lives matter more than anything and as such the union urges them to be extra cautious and ensure they comply with the health regulations. “No one wants marking centres to be super spreaders of the virus.” She said Sadtu monitors have been visiting centres and in some compliance is highly compromised and markers were found chatting in large groups. “The department had told us that there is a compliance officer in each centre and we call upon these officers to take full responsibility for compliance related matters in their centres,” said Caluza. KZN Department of Education spokesperson, Muzi Mahlambi, said they will continue to stick with the health protocols as per the World Health Organisation’s guidelines. He said they mass screen regularly and where Covid-19 symptoms are picked up, people are referred to health practitioners. “Indications are that some markers go to the centres knowing they are positive. We urge them not to do so as it is dangerous to the health of their colleagues and themselves.” The province hired 8 730 markers for the 2020 matric examinations but at least 101 did not turn up for the first week, which started on January 4, and the fear of contracting Covid-19 is believed to be amongst the reasons they did not report for duty.