Current lockdown restrictions are expected to continue.There is strong speculation that President Cyril Ramaphosa will address the nation as early as Monday night.South Africa's recorded Covid-19 death toll has surpassed 33 000 and infections increased by 17 412, taking the total to 1 231 597. President Cyril Ramaphosa is set to announce an extension of current Covid-19 restrictions for another month, following a series of meetings and consultations with relevant structures. Despite a court application by SA Breweries (SAB), there will be a continuation of the restrictions on the sale of alcohol beyond 15 January. News24 understands that a curfew will remain in place and that restrictions on gatherings will continue. Insiders said Ramaphosa could make an announcement on the reopening of schools – a huge cause for concern because the new variant of Covid-19 in South Africa is said to be affecting children. Earlier on Monday morning, Department of Basic Education (DBE) head of department, Mathanzima Mweli, said DBE would, on Tuesday, present the findings of their research on Covid-19 in schools to the National Coronavirus Command Council."That meeting will decide whether they will allow us to proceed with the reopening of schools. From our side, the dates are what we communicated," Mweli said. ALSO READ | School reopening dates to stay the same… for now - basic education department While Ramaphosa is expected to address the nation on Monday evening, his office could not confirm this. Spokesperson Tyrone Seale said the Presidency would advise ahead of time whether such an address would take place. The Cabinet held a special meeting on Sunday to discuss the adjusted regulations. Premiers and religious leaders were also consulted. The National Coronavirus Command Council (NCCC) met last week already. READ | SA Breweries to face off against government in court over alcohol ban Gauteng Premier David Makhura said, during a visit to Pretoria's Steve Biko Academic Hospital, that the provincial command centre would give a detailed briefing on the progress of the Covid-19 pandemic on Tuesday, after the president makes his announcement. This means that it's likely that Ramaphosa will do so on Monday night, although Makhura won't confirm this. Ramaphosa's expected address comes as numbers in Gauteng continue to rise, and as reported cases in other provinces, such as Limpopo, Mpumalanga and the Northern Cape, are also becoming a concern. Makhura said that the provincial government would not ask for a hard lockdown because the negative impact on livelihoods and businesses would be too severe. ALSO READ | No hard lockdown for SA, ANC NEC resolves amid rising Covid-19 infections South Africa's recorded Covid-19 death toll surpassed 33 000 on Sunday and infections increased by 17 412, taking the total to 1 231 597.  Did you know you can comment on this article? Subscribe to News24 and add your voice to the conversation. 