Msunduzi is mourning the loss of seasoned IFP councillor Dolo Zondi, who died of Covid-19-related complications on Friday. IFP caucus leader and whip Thinasonke Ntombela said the news of Zondi’s death came as a great shock as they had hoped that he would make a full recovery. “Councillor Zondi was true example of a real gentleman. He was amongst the most senior and experienced councillors in our council but he always treated everyone, even us who were younger than him, with respect and was always patient with us when we sought his guidance.” Ntombela said Zondi was highly respected even by those from the opposition parties because he never let political differences interfere with his job of ensuring that the people of Msunduzi got service delivery. “As the IFP we wish to extend our heartfelt condolences to his family and colleagues. His death leaves a huge gap in the IFP caucus and the council as a whole. It saddens me that someone who made such a great contribution to the growth and development of Pietermaritzburg is going to be laid to rest under lockdown restrictions, which prevents a gathering of all of those who would have loved to come to say their goodbyes.” READ | Former KZN MEC Ntuli laid to rest Zondi was the brother of Inkosi Ntsikayezwe Zondi of KwaMpumuza tribal authority. Mayor Mzimkhulu Thebolla described Zondi’s death as a great loss to the City. “We are really saddened by his untimely death … He served the citizens of Msunduzi with dedication and commitment.” Deputy Mayor Inderjit Manilal, who served alongside Zondi since 2006, described him an extraordinary human being who always had the citizens’ interest at heart irrespective of their political affiliations. “I will miss his contributions at the infrastructure services portfolio committee because he had a great understanding of people’s issues and a wealth of experience in local government.” Meanwhile, eThekwini’s Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda extended his condolences to the family of Hammarsdale’s councillor, Nhlanhla Mngwengwe, who died on Thursday after a long illness. Mngwengwe died while he was serving his third term as a ward councillor in eThekwini. He also served in the municipal economic development and planning committee.