The tropical cyclone Eloise is losing it strength after it made
landfall in Mozambique early on Saturday, hitting the coastal city of Beira
with huge gusts of wind and heavy rains, a South African weather official said. ALSO READ | Brace yourselves - here comes Cyclone Eloise | Weekend update Reuters reported that Mbazhi
Maliage, a forecaster at South African Weather Service (Saws) said Eloise made
landfall around 2:30 am in the morning with wind speeds of 160 kilometres per
hour (kph) at 99 miles per hour. Cars were submerged in water,
walls of some low lying buildings collapsed and swathes of land were flooded in
the city of Beira, posts on Twitter showed. Reuters could not independently
verify the authenticity of the posts. According to Reuters, power
supplies were shut down as the cyclone damaged power lines and uprooted some
electricity poles, a source at power utility EDM said. Rains had now subsided and EDM was
assessing the damage, the source said, while internet and telephone lines were
also down in several coastal and inland districts around Beira. The World Meteorological
Organisation (WMO) in a Twitter post said the cyclone had weakened to a
tropical storm, and will bring heavy rains to parts of Zimbabwe, South Africa,
Botswana. ALSO READ | Tropical cyclone Eloise set to intensify | Possible impact on South Africa's weather Maliage told Reuters that the
storm was expected to weaken further as it enters northern parts of South
Africa. WMO late Friday had upgraded the
storm, fuelled by the warm Indian Ocean waters of the Mozambique channel, to a
tropical cyclone with strength equivalent to a Category Two storm. Category Two strength - on
five-level scale - refers to hurricanes with maximum wind speeds of 154-177
kph. Around 3 000 people were evacuated
from Buzi district outside of the port city of Beira, Mozambique's National
Institute for Disaster Risk Management and Reduction (INGD) said in remarks
broadcast on local television on Friday. In March 2019 Beira was ravaged by
Cyclone Idai which killed more than 1 000 people across Mozambique, Malawi and
Zimbabwe. Eloise will not be as bad as Idai
but will still cause a lot of damage in Mozambique, Maliage said. "By tomorrow [Sunday], it
will be an overland tropical depression. At that time the speed will be 60
kph," she said, but added it will bring showers in South Africa's northern
provinces of Limpopo, Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal from late afternoon.