In spite of Sharks coach Sean Everitt being a bit relieved that his unpredictable forward pack won’t face “one of the world’s best loosehead props” in Stephen Kitshoff, the mentor has cautioned his troops against lowering their guard ahead of their crucial clash against Western Province this weekend. The Sharks and Province meet at Newlands Stadium in Cape Town on Saturday at 4.30 pm in a huge fight to proceed to the Carling Currie Cup final scheduled for next weekend. Everitt, who had to deal with a lot of Covid-19 disruptions in the current domestic season, was fortunate this week as he had a full-strength team to select from for their biggest match of the campaign so far. Read more: Sharks welcome Du Toit back for Province clash On the other hand, his counterpart at Province John Dobson has been forced to leave out one of his key men, Steven Kitshoff, due to Covid-19 protocols. The Springbok prop has been replaced by the 31-year-old Ali Vermaak, who has been with the union since 2008 and is described by Dobson as one of the most underrated in South Africa. For most of the season, Province have been thriving on set-piece dominance to win their matches and Kitshoff, together with Bongi Mbonambi and Frans Malherbe, formed a formidable combination that gave opponents a hard time. Without a doubt, Kitshoff’s absence will definitely be felt by Province but Everitt insists that doesn’t mean his forward pack, who are yet to impress this season, are set for a walk in the park. “Normally, the set-piece battle is a unit battle, obviously Steven Kitshoff is probably one of the best loosehead props in the world and he has been playing exceptionally well,” said Everitt. “He is fit, he has pushed the time on the field, so I suppose you can look at it in two different ways. Ali Vermaak is a good player as well. They still got Frans Malherbe, Bongi and JD Schickerling and Salmaan Moerat who is back at lock,” pointed out Everitt. “It’s a formidable tight five as it is, but ja, no one is ever happy for someone who is sick. We will take it as it comes, there’s no way that they are going to be easy for us. They are still a threat and like I said, it’s a unit effort from their side.” Read more: Sharks ready to get technical at Newlands The coach also gave reasons behind his decision to fiddle with his tight five, which saw Thomas du Toit returning to the set-up, Fez Mbatha starting at hooker and JJ van der Mescht partnering Ruben van Heerden at second row. “Thomas has been out for a while, he had Covid problems and he recovered from that and prior to that he had an injury. So, it’s good to have Thomas back to full fitness,” said Everitt. “At hooker, we felt that Fez went really well against the Griquas, there was a lot of improvement in our scrummaging, so we’ve gone for Fez. Dan Jooste picked up an injury last week which has recovered from now. To be honest we weren’t quite sure if he was going to come through, but he trained on Tuesday,” he said. “JJ put in a great performance, probably his best performance against the Griquas so he earns that on merit. Hyron Andrews hasn’t played for a while, so we don’t feel that his body will be good to go for the full 80 minutes. “So, we are starting with our fittest tight five that we have.”