Almost every athlete has spoken about the challenge of playing in empty stadiums, but there is reason that Sharks skipper Lukhanyo Am will be thrilled to play at a quiet and empty Newlands Stadium this weekend for their Currie Cup knockout against Western Province. On Saturday, Province will host the Durban-based franchise in a Currie Cup semi-final at 4.30 pm — a clash that is set to be an emotional one for the Capetonians as this might be their last fixture at the venue before moving to Cape Town Stadium. Sports events have been taking place behind closed doors as the country is still battling the Covid-19 pandemic. However, Am believes that’s a blessing in disguise for the Durbanites as playing Province in front of their tough supporters is usually quite a challenge because of the hostility they have towards visitors. “I’m actually glad there won’t be fans at Newlands. They are probably the toughest fans to play in front of,” said Am. “But I think having been playing in empty stadiums has changed the dynamics of the game, but also I know Western Province guys will be very emotional playing probably their last game at Newlands.” As they head to Newlands, the Sharks should be concerned that they have not performed well away from home this season, especially against the other big franchises. Read more: Sharks hope for negative tests after strict isolation The Durban side suffered defeats in Gauteng against the Bulls and Lions, and were also downed by the Cheetahs in Bloemfontein. The Sharks and Province/Stormers have not met in the current season as both their round-robin fixtures were called off due to Covid-19. But Am insists that the break they got because of the virus outbreak at King’s Park has allowed them to get their house in order as they push for Currie Cup glory. “I think the Covid-19 situation was a blessing in disguise for us, it gave us a longer time to prepare for the semi-finals. I think we managed to sharpen on the issues that we thought we needed time to improve on,” he said. “Going into a semi-final, it’s like any other play-off game where you need to try to score as many points as you can. ‘So, it’s definitely going to be a tough one against Western Province at New­lands, but we know what to expect from them and we will try to encounter that.” Province have been thriving on set-piece dominance to conquer their counterparts but with a possibility that Steven Kitshoff might miss the match, it could be a big knock for the hosts in their game-plan. Read more: Sharks coach assures players their spots are safe The coaching staff have confirmed that they face a wait of another day or so before the ace front-row forward can be cleared to play in this weekend’s game. According to assistant coach Dawie Snyman, Kitshoff is yet to train this week due to Covid-19 protocol procedures that make him a potentially doubtful starter for the play-off game.