The South African National Editors’ Forum (SANEF) is
appalled and saddened by the admission of African News Agency (ANA) CEO
Vasantha Angamuthu that they accepted money from the State Security Agency
(SSA) to “provide multi-media training for SSA analysts and interns across
Africa” and to carry positive stories about South Africa and the government. Angamuthu's admission comes after the testimony of Dr Sydney
Mufamadi before the State Capture Commission of Inquiry. Mufamadi told the
commission that about R20 million was paid by the intelligence agency to ANA to
influence the national news narrative and to counter the bad publicity around
former president Jacob Zuma’s government. ANA is part of the Independent Media group, owned by Dr
Iqbal Survé. The shocking revelation that a spy agency paid a media house for
“training” and to report positively on the government is the latest in a series
of allegations of unethical behaviour against Independent Media. In their recent report on Media Ethics and Credibility,
retired Judge Kathy Satchwell and her fellow panelists cited several occasions
where Survé interfered with the editorial independence of editors and
journalists in the group. In reaction to Mufamadi's testimony that ANA was paid R20
million by the SSA, Angamuthu defended ANA's position, saying the agency is not
a front for the SSA. But she admitted to having had a contract with the SSA
"to provide multimedia training for SSA analysts and interns across Africa,
and to use its platforms, in particular the African Independent newspaper, to
carry positive stories about South Africa and the South African
government". This undermines the independence and credibility of the
media in South Africa. It further erodes the trust that audiences/readers place
on the media industry. The generally accepted rule in journalism is for paid-for
content to be identified as such. That this did not happen in this case is
worrying. It is apparent from Angamuthu's statement that she sees
nothing wrong with a media house being paid to write stories that put a
positive spin on the activities of the government. The South African Press Code - to which Independent Media
and its publications like ANA, IOL, The Star and The Sunday Independent are no
longer signatories - is abundantly clear that conflicts of interests should be
avoided. "The media shall not allow commercial, political, personal or
other non-professional considerations to influence reporting, and avoid
conflicts of interest as well as practices that could lead readers to doubt the
media’s independence and professionalism," states the code. It is clear from Angamuthu's admission that ANA did not
comply with this basic tenet of ethical journalism. SANEF understands that many journalists and editors working
for ANA were not aware of the existence of this contract and were equally
shocked by the revelations and admission. To protect innocent journalists and editors from ANA, who
were in the dark about this deal, it is of utmost importance that the details
of the project and its participants be unearthed. SANEF calls on Angamuthu and her bosses, in the interests of
transparency, to make public the contract with the SSA, and to also provide a
portfolio of stories published by Independent Media in executing this contract. FURTHER CLAIMS OF SSA CLANDESTINE ACTIVITIES SANEF is equally concerned about further claims of media
manipulation by SSA. In a letter to the Zondo Commission by lawyers
representing former SSA Director General Arthur Fraser among others, it has
been alleged that SSA provided funding for the establishment of a certain
broadcast media company where the agency seconded some of its members. The letter, which has since gone viral on social media
platforms, also claims that SSA money was used to purchase an online
publication on behalf of certain individuals. We do not name the broadcast media company and the online
publication because the claims have not been put before the commission yet and,
unlike in the case of Independent Media, those implicated have yet to respond. We call on the relevant authorities to investigate these
claims and make public their findings. We also encourage the two media
companies to publicly respond to these allegations so as not to fuel further
speculation. SANEF believes that as the media we are not above scrutiny
hence our call for transparency in this matter. Any allegations of manipulation
or impropriety taint the entire media industry. Following the release of the Judge Kathy Satchwell report on
media ethics and credibility, SANEF plans to host several seminars to discuss
issues of ethical breaches identified in the report including the recently
revealed cases in the Zondo Commission. SANEF’s virtual council meeting in
February will also be debating the way forward on the implementation of some of
the recommendations of the Satchwell Report including an engagement with Media
owners on critical issues of media freedom and the sustainability of ethical
newsrooms. Note to Editors: The South African National Editors’ Forum
(SANEF) is a non-profit organisation whose members are editors, senior
journalists and journalism trainers from all areas of the South African media.
We are committed to championing South Africa’s hard-won freedom of expression
and promoting quality, ethics and diversity in the South African media. We
promote excellence in journalism through fighting for media freedom, writing
policy submissions, research and education and training programmes. SANEF is
not a union.