“Business is drying up.” These are the sentiments expressed by local sex workers across the city, with some saying they have gone from seeing up to 10 clients within a day to as few as three clients now due to the pandemic. “We are scared. Of course we fear the virus, but we need to make money also. We have rent, electricity, food, children and other bills to pay for so we have to be out here looking for work,” said the group of women who wished to remain unnamed. They were responding to questions about whether women in their line of work feared for their lives given the contact nature of their jobs. While sex work remains illegal in South Africa, many sex workers feel they do not have any other options. “We know that what we are doing is illegal, however, there are no jobs available to us. READ | Sex workers’ covid misery “We would love to have legal jobs but there aren’t any and if there are, there aren’t jobs that can pay us close to R500 a day, which we were making before Covid-19,” said one woman. The women say that since the pandemic began they have been trying to keep as safe as possible by wearing masks when interacting with clients. However, adding to the risky nature of their work is the fact that most cannot even afford basic necessities such as hand sanitizer, and isolation is not an option for them. “We cannot afford to be buying hand sanitizer all the time and that goes for reusable masks as well.  “Our jobs require us to interact with people and therefore we cannot isolate because if we were to do so we would die of hunger,” said one woman. The women say that business has dried up due to the pandemic with many customers shying away in fear of contracting the virus and also due to the curfew that has been imposed throughout the lockdown. “Most of our clients prefer to conduct business during the later hours of the night and due to the curfew we are not able to work ...” said one of the women. The women say that if sex work was legal in South Africa then better regulations would be imposed on their profession, resulting in a safer and more orderly way of doing business, which would be beneficial for them. Sex work in SA remains illegal for both buying and selling sex as well as related activities such as brothel keeping and pimping.