Instagram was abuzz this week when Rugby World Cup winner and Springbok legend, Tendai 'Beast' Mtawarira, expressed his interest in joining World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). Now 35-years-old, Mtawarira appeared in a 16-minute chat on the social media platform with WWE superstar Kofi Kingston. The pair chatted about rugby, WWE and, along the way, Mtawarira revealed his love for the business. "There he is, the Beast!” is how Kingston started the chat with Mtawarira, pointing out that he was excited to get the opportunity to speak to another African star based in America and whose journey to success has been similar to his. The two stars had the conversation to celebrate each other’s sporting achievements, a year since Mtawarira joined US Major League Rugby side, Old Glory DC. Kingston acknowledged that some of his fellow WWE superstars had played rugby before the move to wrestling and he then asked 'Beast' if he would one day consider stepping into the ring, because his name and body type would make him a perfect fit in the industry. Mtawarira responded by saying that he has been a WWE fan since he was young and that it would be an amazing experience, given the fact that he looks up to WWE legends like Hulk Hogan and The Rock. "To actually get the opportunity to come to the WWE, even on a once-off appearance, I would be so excited," he said. "I think it's one of the most incredible television shows out there and I think a lot of African kids watch WWE. You know, you practice all your super slams with your brothers and sisters, so to actually have an opportunity to come to the WWE ... I would relish that and I would be excited." "Let’s see what happens man, maybe you can open some doors." Kingston then said that he would do "everything in his power" to get Mtawarira into the ring. The discussion also included similarities in their individual journeys, as they both left their home countries - Kingston is from Ghana and Mtawarira is from Zimbabwe - at a young age to find success. - Supplied