Muslims for Humanity has partnered with Daymed Private Hospital and Midlands Medical Centre to provide facilities to assess patients and reduce the impact on emergency departments. The tented facilities, which have beds, drips, medical equipment and piped oxygen, will help those who need medical assistance, but not hospitalisation. It will also free up beds for those who need critical care in the two hospitals. The facility at the Daymed Private Hospital in Dr Chota Motala Road, Raisethorpe, is already operational, while the one at the Midlands Medical Centre in Masukwana Street, Pietermaritzburg, is expected to open on Thursday. Moosa Ziyaard, a member of Muslims for Humanity and owner of QPET in Du Toit Viljoen Road, Willowton, said: “Emergency departments are getting too full and they’re turning people away. “These facilities mean people can come and be assessed and divided into those who need to go to hospital and those who can be treated at home.” Patients, who don’t have medical aid, will be assisted to get a bed at a state hospital. Moosa said Muslims for Humanity is also hoping to meet with the KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Health, Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu, to set up similar facilities at Grey’s Hospital, Edendale Hospital and Northdale Hospital. Earlier this week, KZN Premier, Sihle Zikalala, and MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, Ravi Pillay, visited the Ahmed Al Kadi Hospital in Durban, the first place to benefit from the new Covid-19 day care facilities. It was set up in just eight hours by Muslims for Humanity, Natal Memon Jamaat, the Islamic Medical Association, the Caring Sisters Network, the Al Imdaad Foundation, the Darul Ihsan Humanitarian Centre and Jamiatul Ulema KZN. “It is a triage centre as well as a facility offering day outpatient support and services to Covid-19 patients by ensuring proper assessment and outpatient management in a bid to prevent hospitalisation,” said Ebrahim Asmal, the hospital general manager at Ahmed Al Kadi Hospital. Covid-19 facilities have also been set up at the Hibiscus Hospital in Port Shepstone and the Hibiscus Cato Ridge Hospital; and R500 000 worth of oxygenators have been donated to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital in Phoenix and Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital in Umlazi. While there is no shortage of funding and equipment, finding people with the necessary skills to man them is proving challenging. One solution has been to bring in medical students and volunteers to help with non-medical care, like the lifting of patients.