Tributes poured in on Sunday for Merchiston Preparatory School’s headmaster Dave­ Beetar, who died on Saturday night due to Covid-19 related illness. His son Dr Matthew Beetar paid tribute to him as follows on behalf of the Beetar family: My father was many things. He was a keen sportsman, a musician, a carpenter, a metalsmith, a lover of food … To most in Pietermaritzburg he was Mr Beetar, Headmaster of Merchiston. To us he was always Dave — loving husband, the mischievous brother, the loyal friend — or our adoring dad. Dad loved poker. When he met my mother, Trish/Cookie Cannon in 1978 at Edgewood, her family insisted he learn how to play the game. They called him “that Lebanese Durban oke”, their Maritzburg sensibilities slightly shocked by the shoulder-length hair and 70s moustache he sported (a far cry from “short back and sides”). Although the poker games were occasionally a front for political meetings on how to resist the apartheid government, he became a proficient player and finally gained mom’s approval. They married in 1982 and began their 39-year marriage, dedicated to education in South Africa. Dad understood that poker has risks, but that it’s a game of great skill and strategy. He knew that sometimes you need to hang in there and keep playing until you spot an opportunity to change your lot. He excelled at the game because this was his approach to life. He overcame the difficulties of his impoverished childhood (with the love of his siblings Colin, Lesley and Gillian, and his parents, George and Joan) and channelled his personal experiences of hardship into compassion, forgiveness, kindness and an absolute dedication to helping children in need. Merchiston entered our lives in 1988, when I was less than a year old. My childhood was spent on the grounds of the school with my brothers, Nathan and Andrew. In poker you learn to read your fellow players, coming to understand those who stubbornly stick to their habits. He started his time there as superintendent and sports master, and knew change was coming to the country. Dad helped guide the school through the transition to democracy, and completely transformed it. He grew it in every way — not only socially and ethically, but in terms of its infrastructure too. ALSO READ | Passion for gardening helps Merchiston pupil cope with aspergers. Through his incredible leadership skills and his fundamental belief in the good of people, he helped grow a community of teachers, pupils, parents and old boys who share the Merchiston values. He always knew he was a part of a legacy, and his goal was always to make the school a safe place for every boy. Dad became headmaster 10 years after joining and is the longest-serving head of the school. He touched thousands of lives, and I know many will be sharing in our grief. The city has lost one of its greatest social advocates. Poker evenings were the way we all came together to celebrate as a family. We learned early on that boasting about your winnings is a sure way to tempt luck — and dad never boasted. He led his life with dignity, generosity and faith. He despised bullying and went out of his way to help anyone in need, never seeking credit. He fought for LGBT, animal and human rights, and believed that leaders should serve those they are tasked with protecting. Dad spent his life serving. In every poker game there comes a time to cash in your chips. Dad cashed in far too early but if I’m certain of anything it’s this: he’d want us all to keep on playing. Dave Beetar is survived by his wife, three sons and daughter-in-law, sister and father, and his extended Beetar/Cannon family. Any messages of support, memories or photos can be sent to the memorial e-mail: todavebeetar@gmail.com In a statement, deputy headmaster of Merchiston Eric White extended their deepest condolences to Trish, Matthew, Nathan and Andrew and the entire Beetar family. ALSO READ | Mudrats kept apart. The school’s Facebook page was flooded by condolences from the Merchiston community who described Beetar as a wonderful man and an outstanding teacher. Jenni Edwards said: “Our deepest condolences Trish and family, keeping you in our thoughts and prayers. A wonderful man who had the time for individuals, teams and the community as a whole. “He grew our Merchie mudrats into true gentleman.” Winks Pienaar said: “A truly wonderful man, who had a heart of gold. Deepest sympathy to his family, Merchiston family and friends.” ALSO READ | Covid-19: Nizimia Islamic School’s acting head dies. Melanie Jane Martin said: “He made us feel like family the minute we met him and joined the Merchiston Preparatory School family. Our hearts are broken, and we send love and condolences to the family.” Rory John Bremner said: “This is incredibly sad news. My condolences go out to the Beetar family as well as the entire Merchiston community. “The Maritzburg community as a whole have lost a wonderful man, outstanding teacher and phenomenal role model. Rest in peace Mr Beetar.”