Following a scrappy affair that saw them beating Western Province 19-9, Sharks coach Sean Everitt admits that they will have to do better if they are to upset the Bulls in the Currie Cup final this coming weekend. The climax of the domestic competition will see the Durban-based franchise travel to the country’s capital to face favourites, the Bulls, at Loftus Stadium. The Sharks and Province semi-final clash at Newlands Stadium on Saturday was not easy on the eye as both teams lacked discipline and committed a number of errors. There was only one try in the match, which was scored by Sharks lock JJ van der Mescht, while in form flyhalf Curwin Bosch contributed 14 points with his boot. “Obviously, there were mistakes in the game, but I think it was more of the way the game was played,” said Everitt after the match. “Western Province kicked a lot of contestables and so did we. So, when you are kicking contestables it’s not going to be a non-scrappy affair because the ball does fall on the floor and it’s very difficult to compete in the aerial battles. “Yes, there were mistakes and it was part of our plans to kick the ball in the air and put the back three under pressure,” he said. “Going to the Highveld will pose different challenges. Normally, it’s dry there unless there’s a thunderstorm in the afternoon. We will go back home now and work really hard, put a nice plan together so that we are able to come out on top in the Currie Cup final.” Everitt also had praise for Bosch who has won them quite a few matches this season through his excellent performances. “It’s incredible how he has gone this season. He has taken us out of the trenches a couple of times in games. The extended time that he has had at 10 he has just grown in confidence and so has his kicking game,” said Everitt. ALSO READ | “It is always a team effort” insists Sharks flyhalf Bosch. “The drop goal and the penalties that he kicked were the difference in the game and I’m very proud of his performances and he made a big contribution to the result.” Everitt said he was happy that the players, who had a strong campaign in Super Rugby last year before it was disrupted by Covid-19 pandemic, now have an opportunity to play in a final. “I wouldn’t say it is justice because what’s gone is gone. I’m just happy for the players that they have an opportunity of playing in the final,” he said. “Super Rugby of last year is long gone, I just don’t feel we are playing as well as we did then but this afternoon’s [Saturday’s] game just shows that when we put a plan in place and the guys stick to it we get results. “Exceptionally happy for the guys and the effort that they have put in a very difficult and challenging season,” the coach said.