OPINION:    Mr President, as we prepare for the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and the vaccination season one, let’s rethink our future. The reality is that we must learn to live with the virus. The vaccine, Mr President, is our saving grace only in the long term — and the road to vaccinating 67% of our population is laid with dynamite. The danger isn’t the alleged botched government-driven vaccination strategy, or the mooted central Covid-19 vaccine procurement. Mr President, the threat is found in our kitchen, yes, in our garlic and ginger that have made a return as a cure for all and sundry. I erroneously thought that Manto Tshabalala-Msimang died with her garlic and beetroot combo as a cure for all viruses. Over and above the garlic and ginger menace, we also have the well-funded and well-organised 5G “mobile-phone signals” gang and anti-vaccine malcontents. These gangs run a well-oiled anti-Covid-19 vaccine propaganda machine that mutates faster than the virus itself. The other day we were force-fed lies that the Covid-19 vaccine is a ruse by Bill Gates to depopulate Africa. Strangely, Gates took the vaccine last week, while Africa is still scrambling to get enough jabs to cover a fraction of its 1,2 billion people.  A storm in a tea cup also broke after news reports revealed that the most unfairly hated SA billionaire, Johann Rupert, received his Covid-19 jab in Switzerland. It really boggles the mind why the 5G and anti-vaccine crew care so much as to who gets the vaccine, where and how. To use these rich people as their muses to commit Covid-19 genocide is deplorable. Mr President, as a country, our work is cut out for us. This means that as a government and as a people, we must intensify our public campaigns and stakeholder engagements wherein we exalt the virtues of sound science and Covid-19 vaccines. We must take the vaccine war to the 5G gang’s backyard, fight them ceaselessly, street by street, house by house, village by village, and town by town. We need our own version of the pro-vaccine Stalingrad strategy so cleverly articulated by uBaba’s former advocate the late Kemp J. Kemp. Sadly he succumbed to the virulent pandemic this week. I suggest that our best bet, Mr President, is to smoke out the anti-vaccine crew as quickly as possible. We must set a trap for these malcontents on the ground so that no matter how high they fly with their misinformation and outright lies, we have already covered the ground. Failure is not an option as it will undo all the good work you have done as head of state since March 2020.  In the loving memory of Minister in the Presidency, the late Jackson Mphikwa Mthembu, let’s accelerate a massive “Please Vaccinate Me” campaign on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, television, radio and all newspapers. We must leave no stone unturned. In the long-term, we must create Covid-19 free zones. For instance, no one without proof of vaccination should be allowed to access public or private health services as soon as enough dosages of the vaccine become available. All people who present themselves to any health facility must be vaccinated on arrival. Just as you need a mask to gain entry to public spaces, once we have the vaccine it should be mandatory to be vaccinated, as not having the vaccine can harm public health. All undergrounding mining must be declared Covid-19 free zones. All schools, public or private, must admit only pupils with proof of the Covid-19 vaccination. No government or private-sector client-facing employees must be allowed to offer services unless they can provide a valid vaccination certificate. All our ports of entry must be declared Covid-19 free zones. By the end of 2022, no visitor should be allowed to gain entry to the republic without a valid Covid-19 vaccination certificate.  At a personal level, my household is ready for the vaccine and is set to be declared a Covid-19 free zone. In the future, anyone likely to be invited to my house for a braai will be checked against the national vaccination database before being allowed entry. I appeal to all South Africans to block and delete the 5G mob and anti-vaccine mischief-makers on all social-media platforms. We must shun people promoting Covid-19 genocide. We must save lives and protect livelihoods. The stakes are high. Till next week my man. “Send me.” • Bhekisisa Mncube is a former senior Witness political journalist, the 2020 regional winner in the column category of the Vodacom Journalist of the Year Award, and author of The Love Diary of a Zulu Boy, a memoir. 