A Copesville family fear that that their home might collapse around them due to constant flooding from a City manholes in front of their gate. Ruth and Peter Ramsamy said this problem has been ongoing for almost 30 years and after numerous complaints and the intervention of the ward councillor, Spha Madlala, Msunduzi eventually built a five-metre retaining wall in 2016, but it collapsed in 2018. “Since then we’ve been complaining to the municipality and they come and each time they come and take pictures but they never come back to fix it,” said Peter. He said whenever it rains the water gushes out from the manhole and runs onto their property, flooding their kitchen and lounge. He said it did not even take a heavy downpour for this to happen as the manhole was obviously also severely clogged. “It takes 15 minutes at most after it starts raining. “Even if we are sleeping, we have to get up because we don’t want to die in our sleep,” said Peter. He said when it rained while no one was home they came back to a house full of water. Ruth said the water damaged their lounge and kitchen furniture and they had to change the main door several times a year. She said on Monday part of the retaining wall at the front side of their house — which was meant to prevent rain water from flowing onto the neighbouring properties, collapsed on top of the neighbour’s dog. “We’ve already had one fatality and I’m afraid we might be next. “My husband is a heart patient and is constantly worried about this and if we had a choice we’d move somewhere else but we can’t sell this property because of this flooding problem,” she said. The couple estimated that the damage they have suffered over the years amounted to more than R700 000, but doubted the municipality would ever reimburse them. ALSO READ | FLOODS RIP THROUGH CITY. They said not only did the walls have cracks but they had to replace furniture on several occasions. “We’ve now stopped replacing furniture because it’s like pouring money down the drain,” said Ruth. Acting City spokesperson Ntobeko Ngcobo said: “The municipality is aware of the matter and has been communicating with the property owner; the plan is to get a high pressure cleaner that will assist to clear up the blocked pipe and thereafter a retaining wall will be rebuilt.”