Two male nurses will appear in the Durban Magistrates court on Wednesday for a case of fraud after it's alleged they stole money from a dying patient's bank card. One of the nurses, aged 40 years old, had been working at St Augustine Hospital, and the other, a 45-year-old, works at a private hospital in Umhlanga, said KZN police. Netcare said the nurse who was working at St Augustines is a contract worker employed through an agency. In a statement, the police said it is alleged that the complainant, a business owner in Umbilo, has a business partner who was admitted to St Augustines Hospital. It is alleged that they have a joint business account. “According to the complainant, he noticed that his partner's card was being used while he lay in hospital and it continued to be used even after he had passed away. “lt is alleged that according to the bank statement,  one withdrawal  was made at St Augustines hospital. Their video footage was not clear enough. “lnvestigating officer Sergeant Ngcobo from Umbilo continued with his investigation. He visited one of the stores where purchases were made with the card.” He went to Glenwood Spar and their video footage confirmed that the card was used by the St Augustine’s nurse. “He was dressed in full uniform. The accused was arrested and some of the goods he purchased were recovered,” said the police statement. The nurse told police that the card was with his friend, the nurse from the Umhlanga private hospital. “He too was arrested and other goods purchased by him were also recovered.” Police said the nurses were both alleged to be repeat offenders. “lt is alleged that the pin code (to the card) was saved in the  deceased's cellphone. The phone was recovered at a second hand cellphone shop in Point Road.” In a statement on Monday afternoon, Netcare St Augustine’s Hospital management said they thanked the South African Police Service (SAPS) for their swift action in investigating a credit card theft and apprehending a suspect. “At the end of last year, we were most concerned when it was reported to us that the credit card of a patient had been stolen, despite the extensive security measures in place within our hospital,” said Heinrich Venter, general manager of Netcare St Augustine’s Hospital. Venter said a case of theft was opened with the SAPS, and the hospital offered its full co-operation to the police in the investigation. The hospital provided security footage from the time of the theft to the police and, together with other video footage taken, a nurse employed as contract worker through an agency was identified and was arrested soon afterwards when the individual next reported for work. "It has since emerged that a second individual was involved. However, this person is not known to Netcare and was not working at the Netcare hospital in uMhlanga. Venter said the arrest "sends a clear message that there is zero tolerance for criminality in our hospital, which is a healing environment” . “We always advise patients to hand in their valuables to security personnel for safekeeping, which is done in accordance with our strict chain of custody paperwork, to minimise the possibility of theft or loss in our hospital.” 