While the Sharks anxiously wait for their Covid-19 test results on Tuesday, their chief executive Eduard Coetzee has entered the debate about the quality of rugby that has been on display during the current Currie Cup season. The Sharks are due to travel to Pretoria for their Currie Cup final match against clear favourites the Bulls at Loftus Stadium on Saturday at 3 pm. The Durban-based side, who reached the final by dispatching Western Province 19-9 at the weekend, conduct their routine Covid-19 tests on Tuesday morning and results are expected on Tuesday evening. The Durbanites have struggled with Covid-19 cases in their camp for most of the season. Apart from the waiting game, the Sharks have said they have no injuries to report on and if there are no identified Covid-19 cases coach Sean Everitt will have a full-strength team to select his matchday squad from. Read more: Everitt: Sharks will need massive effort to gore Bulls Everitt desperately needs all his soldiers fit and healthy in his mission to cause an upset to the Jake White-coached side which arguably has been the best team in the domestic season. Having lifted the Super Rugby Unlocked trophy, White will be eager to complete a cup double this coming weekend. On Monday, South African Rugby Union (Saru) announced that Jaco Peyper will officiate the clash, joining a select group of referees who have taken charge of five Currie Cup finals. Peyper joins André Watson (7 finals), Jonathan Kaplan (6), Steve Strydom (6) and Freek Burger (5) as the only referees who have been the man in the middle in at least five Currie Cup finals. Peyper will be assisted by AJ Jacobs and Griffin Colby while Marius van der Westhuizen will serve as the Television Match Official. Rasta Rasivhenge has been named as the reserve referee for the clash. Read more: Sharks ready to get technical at Newlands Meanwhile, Coetzee took to Twitter to join the debate about the quality of rugby, after people such as former Springbok coach Nick Mallet and former Lions mentor Swys de Bruin said it was definitely not good enough or entertaining. Though Coetzee did not to object to those opinions, he felt that Covid-19 had a huge role to play in all of this. “Seen some valid comments around the quality of some Currie Cup matches ... not trying to justify or defend it, just aiming to add some context. “In 13 rounds of rugby since Covid hit ... not once did we get to train a full week ... the semi-final week was the first one without Covid absentees,” said Coetzee in one of his tweets. “Travelled to matches without coaches available due to Covid ... multiple matches had more than 10 players absent for games ... our staff and players, like many other people in the world facing death of close friends and immediate family members ... So yes ... most of the games were substandard … but I choose to celebrate every coach and player in SA, who during the most testing time we have ever faced in professional rugby, kept our industry alive.” Read more: Sharks welcome Du Toit back for Province clash Coetzee said he was looking forward to the Currie Cup final between the Sharks and Bulls and expressed certainty that quality will return. “May we use this occasion to honour and remember those who left us during the last 10 months of this terrible pandemic and celebrate the sport we love. The quality will return, our players remain talented ... but Covid-19 will leave a legacy of hurt.”