Sharks coach Sean Everitt will be hoping that his livewire fullback Aphelele Fassi delivers another exhilarating performance this weekend when his men take on Western Province in their pursuit of a Carling Currie Cup home semi-final spot. The Sharks and Province will go head-to-head at Newlands on Saturday at 7 pm having both secured their place in the Currie Cup knockouts which are scheduled for next weekend. The other two semi-finalists of this year’s Currie Cup are the Bulls and Lions. Province confirmed their place in the semis thanks to their dramatic 31-29 victory over the Cheetahs while the Sharks walloped the Griquas by 47-19 at Kings Park on Saturday. Amongst the try scorers for the Sharks was Fassi who earned his first start of the domestic season after a lengthy stint on the side lines due to a terrible shoulder injury. The injury saw the 22-year-old missing the whole Super Rugby Unlocked campaign which was won by the Bulls. Read more: Sharks resurrect their Currie Cup hopes Everitt was pleased with the performance of Fassi on Saturday and he believes it’s what his team has been missing for most part of the season. “I said before the game that Aphelele Fassi brings a lot of energy to the team. He is a real livewire and he is dangerous from the back,” said Everitt. “It was a massive improvement on his return to play from last week and that try shows what talent this gentleman has got. He is an amazing guy and certainly brings an X-factor to this team, so we are really happy where we are with him.” Everitt was also left excited about the performance of hooker Fezokuhle Mbatha who also earned his first start. “Fez got his first start and he had a big role to play as I said our tight five has been under the pump and he had an outstanding game, just like most of his teammates,” said the coach about the 21-year-old Maritzburg College old boy. “There were standout players from every aspect, you know one has got to commend Curwin Bosch for his kicking display. His tactical kicks put us in good position on the field and the forwards were able to finish it off. It was a fantastic team effort against the Griquas.” Read more: Fit Fassi returns to Sharks backline, ‘Tank’ still out Though Everitt is thrilled with their effort this past weekend, the coach knows very well that Province aren’t going to be anything like Currie Cup whipping boys, the Griquas. The men from the Northern Cape have failed to register even a single victory in both Unlocked and Currie Cup with just seven points from 10 outings. HOW THEY STAND