The Sharks showed plenty of heart before narrowly losing to Currie Cup favourites, the Bulls, in extra-time of the competition’s final in Pretoria on Saturday. In a dramatic affair, an extra-time try from replacement loose forward Arno Botha helped the Bulls claim their 24th Currie Cup title 26-19 at Loftus Stadium. There was certainly no shortage of drama as the home team ran out as victors following a lightning interrupted first half and level scores at the end of normal time. The game was suspended for at least 30 minutes in the first half due to lighting being reported just seven kilometres away from the venue. The Bulls had gone into the clash as clear favourites following their superb season under coach Jake White which saw them finish at the summit of the tournament standings after the round-robin stage. White also led the franchise to the Super Rugby Unlocked title in November and the experienced coach was determined to complete a domestic double on Saturday. On the other hand, the Sean Everitt-coached Sharks had a tough season, struggling with Covid-19 issues and their forward pack constantly giving below-par performances. But it was the visitors who went into the half-time break leading 13-9 on Saturday, thanks to a try by Springbok wing S’bu Nkosi on the stroke of halftime, two penalties from Curwin Bosch and a conversion. Bulls legend Morne Steyn scored three penalties out of four in the first half before the game was suspended by Peyper after 24 minutes of play. Bosch had a disappointing start to the game as he missed three penalties after he came into the game in fine form but looked like he failed to handle the pressure well. He missed five penalties and scored four but he still finished as the tournament’s player with most points. Nkosi’s try came after a beautiful play by Jaden Hendrikse who delivered a killer pass to the Springbok star to score in the right corner. The Sharks went into the second half to continue where they left and Bosch scored two more penalties but missed one as the Durbanites took the score to 19-9. But the Bulls brought themselves back to the game in the 64th minute with a try from Botha and that was converted by Steyn to make 19-16. With one minute to play, it looked like Sharks were taking the trophy back to Durban but a late penalty from Chris Smith levelled matters. Smith had a chance to seal the victory with a penalty after the hooter had gone, but he missed it to force the game into extra-time. With a minute left to play in the 20 minutes of extra time, Botha struck again with another try to confirm the domestic double for the Bulls and White.