Okay, I’m completely confused. Will someone explain to me, clearly and slowly, why there is so much suspicion around and antipathy towards the Covid-19 vaccine? I’m probably one of the most wary people I know, and after years of my they’re-having-me-on radar being tested in the industry I work in, I think my instincts are pretty good. But, I for one can’t wait for the vaccine to arrive and be administered to me. Why would anyone choose not to have it in the face of this terrible virus? Do they really think it would be administered to us on such a wide scale if it was going to make us all sick? And those who worry that the vaccine will be used to change our DNA or for other nefarious purposes, must consider that there are easier ways to do this than to roll out a massive and expensive undertaking like a country-wide vaccination programme. “They”, whoever they are, could put it in the water so easily. I’ve been hearing some worrying stuff about what many people have been saying on the ACDP Facebook page. My curiosity piqued, I headed over to the page to see what the party’s constituents were saying. I shook my head as I read and started to understand more about the South African survey in which 52% of the people polled said they won’t have the vaccine when it arrives. CompariSure who did the survey said their figures reveal that of these, 34% said they are concerned about side effects, 13% said they wouldn’t have it for religious reasons, 16% because of the price and 40% because of a “fear of needles” and “government tracking”. Back to the ACDP site, a woman there writes: “This vaccine is part of the mark of the beast.” Wow. Some on the page are seeing the regulations about church gatherings as an attack on religion, but these are based on how the infection is spread. Pure and simple. I think many of us are starting to worry that those who are taking up positions like this are subscribing to views that set them up for illness and death, not only of themselves, but of those they come into contact with. And by not being vaccinated they could contribute to a wider spread of the illness. Maybe I’m not up on the rules of the way this all works, but surely this would be more wrong than worshipping at home to keep everyone safe? One man asks … “Why is China not held accountable?” Another replies: “All because they’re been captured by the World order and China.” The NWO is blamed for much on the ACDP page. (That’s New World Order for those of you not up on your conspiracy jargon acronyms). I looked it up on Wiki for you. “The New World Order (NWO) is a conspiracy theory which hypothesises a secretly emerging totalitarian world government. The common theme in conspiracy theories about a New World Order is that a secretive power elite with a globalist agenda is conspiring to eventually rule the world through an authoritarian world government — which will replace sovereign nation-states — and an all-encompassing propaganda whose ideology hails the establishment of the New World Order as the culmination of history’s progress.” Where do these conspiracies come from? Who comes up with them? Renee DiResta, technical research manager at Stanford Internet Observatory and a long-time researcher of communities opposed to vaccination, told the Washington Post that no single Covid-19 anti-vaccine narrative has taken widespread hold. “Nonetheless, misleading stories that percolate less widely can still have an insidious influence,” wrote the Post. It added that DiResta pointed out that most narratives circulating about the vaccine are recycled versions of messages anti-vaccine groups have put out for years. ‘“They are inserting the word ‘covid’ into the usual canards,” she said. “They recognise the potential audience is much, much larger — it’s not just new parents searching for info. It is everyone. “The coronavirus vaccines are so new that even accurate information can spread in a way that could be misunderstood or distorted without the proper context.” It reminds me of the Donald Trump supporters who held a march to the Capitol, after their hero president told them the U.S. elections were rigged and they sucked up this nonsense like leeches. No good came of that. None. Many of those protesters are believed to be members of QAnon. “QA what?” I hear you say. Relax, I’’ll tell you. QAnon is founded on a far-right conspiracy theory about a global “Deep State” cabal of cannibalistic, satanic, paedophile elites. They believe Trump is waging a hidden war against these people in government, business and, you guessed it, the media. A day, described by them as the ‘storm’ is coming when Trump will swoop and thousands of them will be arrested. Oh, come on! What I want to say to anyone caught up in these stories is, please stop worrying about things that may never happen. There’s enough else to worry. Everyone is entitled to their beliefs. Have the vaccine or don’t. I’m big on choice. But please can we all take a deep breath before we start panicking about conspiracies which have the potential to do real harm. Check out the science for yourself. Search for the information on the Internet. Don’t restrict yourself to the lunatic fringe, right-wing media or social-media echo chambers where all you hear is your own opinion reflected back at you. That’s not helpful. Venture out of social media and explore further. Look to the WHO, the CDC, NICD and others for trusted information. No one there is plotting your downfall. They’re looking to save your life. Have the vaccine, or don’t, but keep an open mind. Don’t rush to be anti-government for the sake of it or because they’ve got other things wrong before. Don’t let your lack of faith in their ability to provide electricity, for example, make you gamble on what could be a lifesaving vaccine. A lot rides on this, and in the case of the Covid-19 vaccine, it really is a matter of life and death. And you know what? Ask the health workers, we’ve had more than enough death.  • Stephanie Saville is the editor of The Witness.