The Premier of KwaZulu-Natal Sihle Zikalala announced late on Saturday night "with deep shock and sadness the untimely passing of the MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Mr Bheki Ntuli". "We have just learned of the sad passing of one of our own, MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Mr Bheki Ntuli. We are deeply shocked and extremely hurt by these developments." He said MEC Ntuli died late on Saturday afternoon in a Durban hospital, due to COVID – 19 – related complications. Affectionately known by his clan name “Mphemba”, he was appointed to the position of MEC in September 2019. Zikalala said that throughout his life in politics, he had been a humble, loyal, dedicated, hard-working and exemplary servant of the people of KwaZulu-Natal. "MEC Ntuli has been on the frontline of combat, working day in and day out in all government efforts to mitigate the impact of Covid-19 on citizens. "He was a team player, who always led from the front, including when it came to fighting COVID – 19 in the province. "He is a soldier who died with his boots on. "He was often at the coalface of this epic battle from the time the first case was confirmed in March 2020. He led many campaigns against the virus as Chair of the Justice, and Crime Prevention Cluster with the Provincial Command Council," said Zikalala. He said that as the MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Ntuli always tackled his tasks and responsibilities with aplomb - in spite of their complex and sensitive nature. During his tenure as MEC in this portfolio, he had begun to implement a number of programmes that were aimed at reversing the tide of Gender-Based Violence, Taxi Violence, and reducing the carnage on the province’s roads. "He has consistently displayed exceptional leadership and wisdom.  His charm and charisma enabled him to tackle the most challenging aspect of his portfolio.  He criss-crossed the province, ensuring that people adhere to the Covid-19 protocols. "His loss is therefore a major blow to the Province’s efforts to improve and harmonise the lived experience of the people of KwaZulu-Natal in various spheres of life, not least in the gallant fight that we are waging against this deadly virus." Muntukayise Bhekuyise Ntuli, was born in 1957 in Mtubatuba, in the north of KwaZulu-Natal. He cut his political teeth working in the ANC underground structures and was a liberation fighter, who was involved in uMkhonto WeSizwe underground operations. He has previously served as a shop steward of the National Union of Metal Workers of South Africa, and was involved in the formation of ANC structures in the then Northern Natal region. Mphemba garnered a lot of respect as a peacemaker at the height of internecine political violence between ANC and IFP in Northern Natal, mainly in what is now known as the Musa Dladla Region. He served for more than 15 years as the Chairperson of the ANC in the Musa Dladla Region. He has served for more than 20 years as a member and leader of the ANC sub–committee on Peace and Stability. He has also served as a Member of Council, and the Chairperson of the Council of the University of Zululand. He has been involved in numerous community development projects, assisting community organizations and young people. He held a number of tertiary qualifications, including a Primary Teachers Certificate from eMadadeni College; a degree in Management from UCT Graduate School of Business; a Certificate in Leadership from Wits University; and Post–graduate Diploma in Research, Strategic Diplomacy and Transitional Justice from University of Johannesburg, among others. The Premier said, "We are very saddened by his demise, and wish to convey our sincerest condolences to his family, and to the rest of the Provincial Executive. "The Premier on behalf of the Provincial Government and the people of KwaZulu-Natal, conveys heartfelt condolences to MEC Bheki Ntuli’s family, his colleagues, friends and comrades.  We have lost a humble servant of the people and a true champion of the poor and the downtrodden. "Lala Ngoxolo, Mphemba, Godide, Ndlela kaSompisi."