“We wished him happy birthday on Thursday when he turned 70 and he died the following day.” This was revealed by Nathi Zondi, the son of seasoned IFP councillor Dolo Zondi, who died of Covid-19 complications on Friday. He was speaking to The Witness on Monday as his family and people from different parts of Msunduzi mourned Zondi’s death. Nathi described his father as a principled man who taught his children the values of self-discipline and integrity. “He also lived by those values himself. He always spoke up against all forms of injustice or wrongdoing and he never feared stepping on people’s toes while he did that,” he said. He said the late councillor often put himself in harm’s way for those he loved and his community. This included fighting for the people of KwaMpumuza get service delivery before the 1994 democratic elections when most villages were being sidelined. During the height of political violence, Zondi’s activism also led to several attempts on his life as gunmen hunted him down but he always managed to evade them. Read more: Pietermaritzburg IFP councillor Dolo Zondi dies from Covid-19 “Our father was a symbol of peace in his family and community. He was outspoken but also humble. He was always willing to listen to those with different views. He really left shoes that are too big to be filled by anyone and we know that we will never have anyone like him in our lives but we are consoled by a Bible verse where it says that God will send us a comforter,” he said. Zondi, who was the brother of Inkosi Ntsikayezwe Zondi of KwaMpumuza tribal authority, is survived by his three wives, 12 children and eight grandchildren. Msunduzi councillors have also paid tribute to Zondi, who they described as a “true gentleman”. Councillor Jabu Ngubo of the ANC, who always referred to him as “Nkosana” (prince), said she admired him for his political maturity and how much he cared for his community. “He was one brilliant politician and when you engaged with him you could tell that he knew his stuff. When I first heard the news of his death I was sad but it was later on when I was alone in the evening that it really hit me and I realised how devastated I was.” The pair always enjoyed good banter during council meetings and when they met in other community gatherings. “We met before I became a councillor but we sometimes went up against each other in meetings and it would get really intense at times but it always ended there because when we bumped into each the following day we’d have a good laugh about what happened at the meeting.” DA caucus leader Sibongiseni Majola said Zondi was an extraordinary human being who was always welcoming when he went to him for help as he had extensive institutional knowledge about Msunduzi. “He didn’t speak from a position of a politician, his priority was always Msunduzi and its residents.” ACDP councillor Rienus Niemand said Zondi was an honest and sincere person who was always willing to go an extra mile for the growth and development of Msunduzi. Read more: Obituary | Merchiston’s headmaster Dave­ Beetar “He was such a great asset to both Msunduzi and the IFP. He was someone really unique and he served his party and this council well.” Zondi’s funeral will be broadcast live on Msunduzi’s social media platforms on Wednesday.