Shudufhadzo Musida is using her platform as Miss South Africa to launch an online initiative: #MindfulMondays. When she took the crown in October last year, Musida said she wanted to focus on raising awareness around mental health. For her new venture, she has partnered with the South African Depression and Anxiety Group (Sadag) and together they plan to speak to experts on topics ranging from teen depression to the difference between mental health and mental illness. The sessions will be broadcast on Musida’s Instagram platform @shudufhadzomusida every Monday, starting tonight, at 7 pm. Her first guest will be clinical psychologist and Sadag board member Zamo Mbele, whose conversation focuses on mental health. Their discussion will include the difference between mental health and mental illness; mental health stats in South Africa; how it impacts people; what some of the different mental health issues are and who treats them; what resources are available; and how Covid-19 has impacted mental health. On Monday, February 15, the programme will mark Teen Suicide Prevention Week. Musida’s guest will be GP and social media influencer Dr Sindi van Zyl, who will talk about teen depression, its causes and symptoms; are boys and girls affected differently; how does one identify the warning signs for suicide; how to start the conversation with a friend or child about depression or suicide; and how does one get help if you, or someone you know is thinking of suicide? Musida and Dr Colinda Linde will also look at the difference between anxiety, stress and worry, and how practising mindfulness can help people cope. They’ll also explore the issue of panic attacks, what happens when you don’t treat anxiety, what medication is available and provide some self-help tips. The stigma surrounding mental health and how we start to break it is another topic which will come under the spotlight; as will depression, bullying, grief and loss, how social media affects mental health, substance abuse, the power of support groups, and much more. Musida has always been candid about how bullying affected her mental health: “The bullying happened when I moved to a new school. Before the age of nine I was a bubbly little girl but then people found it okay to bring me down at a time when I was only trying to discover myself. The ramifications were enormous.” To avoid being bullied, Musida started to dress like a boy. “It got to the point where I thought if I covered up and didn’t draw too much attention to myself, maybe it would stop,” she said. “I developed low self-esteem and it took me a long time to realise that it was actually never about me but about the people who were doing the bullying. “For me personally, mental health is something that is not really spoken about. “Unfortunately, it is considered a taboo subject that is often engaged with, not to rehabilitate but to shame, so I want to bring that conversation into the open. It’s time our society stands together to confront this.” 