The South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) brought its members’ protest and quarrels with government to the Pietermaritzburg legislature building on Wednesday. Nationwide the union is demanding that government paves a way for those who have lost their jobs and have been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. They specifically chose the day of the budget speech to do so. Provincial secretary of Saftu, Moses Mautsoe told The Witness that the government needed to pay attention to them. “We want their attention on us. We are demanding that the government address these issues which we have been plagued with before the pandemic which have only got worse since.” “The government and employers alike need to stop sacrificing the general workers of our nation while using Covid-19 as an excuse for the jobs' blood bath,” said Mautsoe. Mautsoe said that they want to know what the plan is to address workers' concerns and to stop the exploitation of the general workers of SA. “We are asking that the benefits of the rich, which have been prevalent for far too long, stop. The government needs to come up with a new way to tax the rich and stop using our people as scapegoats,’ said Mautsoe. Xolani Sisilane, assistant general secretary of Transport, Retail and General Workers Union Thorn, whose members joined the protest, said that the government has failed the very people who voted for them in the first place. “The working class has been exploited for long enough. We want the government to change the system that benefits the minority of people in this country,” “We maintain that we want equality for all and for our capitalistic state to be abolished and replaced with a socialist state,” said Sisilane. Sisilane said that all of South Africa was contributing to the economy in one way or the other but it is in fact the poor who keep getting more poor. Among the demands are a minimum wage of R12 500, better healthcare infrastructure and PPE for all frontline workers, which they say have been scarce. Protesters gathered at Curries Fountain in Durban in the morning and blocked the N3 between Durban and Pietermaritzburg in a 40-vehicle convoy travelling at a snail's pace. Road Traffic Inspectorate spokesperson for KZN, Rajen Chinaboo said that Metro police, the SAPS, RTI and local traffic authorities had monitored the convoy throughout and ensured that the protesters were confined to one lane so that traffic could continue on the N3. However, it was slow.