The African National Congress (ANC) in KwaZulu-Natal is
reeling with shock at the untimely passing of four of its current and former
leaders in the space of one week. Christopher Ntuli, Bridget Ntshangase, Nonhle Mkhulisi and
Alfred Duma have all left the province in shock following their deaths. Zwelifile Christopher Ntuli, a former leader of the ANC in
Durban South Region played a critical role in ensuring the existence of the ANC
in rural parts of the province and building relations with Amakhosi. He was
deployed by the ANC to the National Assembly in 2009 until 2014 and to the
KwaZulu-Natal Legislature in 2014 to 2019. Bridget Nompumelo Ntshangase, a former Treasurer of the
African National Congress Youth (ANCYL) in eThekwini Region, former Regional
Executive Member of the ANC in eThekwini Region and former councillor in the
eThekwini Metropolitan Municipality succumbed to a short illness on Sunday, January
31. Ntshangase was serving as a Regional Task Team member of the ANC eThekwini
Regional Task Team and a Regional Executive Member of the African National
Congress Women’s League in eThekwini Region. She was deployed by the ANC to the
KwaZulu-Natal Legislature in May 2019 and served as the ANC whip until the time
of her passing. On Thursday, February 4, Nonhle Mkhulisi also succumbed to a
short illness. Mkhulisi, a former Chairperson of the ANC and ANC Women’s League
in Musa Dladla currently served on the Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) of
the ANC in the Province. At the time of her passing, Mkhulisi also served as
the Chairperson of the KwaZulu-Natal Chapter of the South African Local
Government Association (SALGA). In 2016, she began her tenure as District Mayor
of the King Cetshwayo Municipality until her untimely departure. ANC Kwazulu-Natal Veteran, Alfred Duma, joined uMkhonto
weSizwe in 1961 and was amongst the brave men and women who fought for the
liberation of South Africa. During the banning of the ANC, Duma faced political
imprisonment from 1964 to 1974. The ANC of KwaZulu-Natal conveyed its condolences to
families, friends, colleagues and comrades of the fallen leaders. KZN MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs
(Cogta) Sipho Hlomuka has sent his condolences to the Mkhulisi family, the King
Cetshwayo family of municipalities, the KZN Chapter of the South African Local
Government Association (SALGA) where the late Mayor served as Chairperson and
to her party - the African National Congress. Hlomuka said Mkhulisi was of a rare breed of public
representatives who helped shape what we now know as the sphere of local
government in our country. He said in her, the local government in KZN  has lost a formidable leader who understood
our communities and sought to serve them with integrity until her final days. “As a province, we are lost for words, for we have truly
lost the best amongst us. We have lost a humble servant who worked diligently
for the people of our province and the King Cetshwayo District. Her passing
leaves a deep void in the sphere of local government in KZN,” said Hlomuka. Hlomuka has also conveyed his condolences to the family and
friends of the late struggle stalwart Alfred Duma, aged 94. He said Duma held a special place in the hearts of many
within the province for his bravery in the face of adversity as he stood
against the apartheid regime. “In him, the province and country have lost a fountain of
wisdom. They have lost a dedicated activist who served the people of South
Africa with integrity at the risk of his own life,” he said. In 2016, following the amalgamation of the Indaka and the
Mnambithi local municipalities, residents decided to name the newly formed
municipality after Alfred Duma in honour of this hero of the struggle.