Though the Sharks now appear to have money to spend on new players, thanks to the big investment by MVM Holdings, former star flyhalf Joel Stransky doesn't need wholesale changes but rather ways to get the best out of their current men. Since the news that the New York-based investors had acquired the controlling share at the Sharks, a number of players, including Springbok captain Siya Kolisi, have been linked with moves to King’s Park. But Stransky believes the Sharks technical team needs to be smart and should not just sign players because they have money to spend. “They’ve got a squad that has done pretty well this season,” said Stransky. “They have made the Currie Cup final and they started last year in Super Rugby very strongly. “They have got a decent foundation but there’s no doubt that when you look at all teams and you look at the quality of the rugby maybe you will be a little bit concerned. Maybe that is a talent issue.” Stransky said the Sharks should bring at least one or two players who will add value to their team. “I will say maybe they need one or two players and it’s up to the coaching team to decide where they need that talent,” he said. “I think they also need to consider where they are playing next [season]. Playing Super Rugby is different to playing Rainbow Cup/PRO16 in Europe where you are going to have different conditions. “When I look at their side, I think they’ve got the makings of a good side and I think it will change a little when they have a more regular training where they are not dealing with Covid-19 testing issues at the start of every week. I will expect them to be a little bit better and I will expect all teams to be better. “I think they will need to decide how they want to play and how they want to play and how they beef up that squad. The only people who can decide that are the coaching staff.” The Pietermaritzburg-born 1995 World Cup winner also believes the coaching staff should rethink the decision to play Thomas du Toit at tighthead. “I still have my concerns with Thomas playing at tighthead. I’m still not convinced he is best at tighthead, he is a great rugby player and has an enormous amount to offer at tighthead but when it comes to scrummaging, I’m not sure whether the move from loosehead has been the best for him,” he said. “At some point you’ve got to decide whether he is a good fit there or not a good fit there. Maybe he should play there in an emergency, but for me if you want to play him where he is best suited, it’s at loosehead. “Then maybe they need to think who your best tighthead is and if you need to bring a specialist tighthead.”