There is hope that the new powers given to the Auditor-General (AG) by Parliament will force government officials to be more compliant with the law in their management of the public purse. This was the sentiment shared by the AG’s business executive in KwaZulu-Natal, Ntombifuthi Mhlongo, when she briefed the media on Thursday on the how her team is implementing the new amendment to the Public Audit Act, which gives auditors more power to ensure accountability in municipalities, entities and government departments. “It will improve the internal control and address the key issues that we have identified. “Our root causes normally specify where the issues are, part of it being the slow response in KZN, to be specific. By having this it forces them to focus more on the [audit] action plan by addressing the issues that cause the main findings in the province.” Mhlongo said the amendment saw the introduction of tracking material irregularities as part of the audit process, which previously remain undictated. This identifies not just non-compliance with the legislation as the AG previously did, but also fraud, theft or a breach of a fiduciary duty that resulted in, or is likely to result in a material financial loss, the misuse or loss of a material public resource, or substantial harm to a public sector institution or the general public. “If the accounting officer or authority does not appropriately deal with material irregularities, our expanded mandate allows us to refer material irregularities to relevant public bodies for further investigations or take binding remedial action for failure to implement the AG’s recommendations for material irregularities,” said Mhlongo. She said if both these failed they now can also “issue a certificate of debt for failure to implement the remedial action if financial loss was involved”. She explained that the public bodies are any state institution with investigative or regulatory powers, such as the Public Protector, Hawks, SARS, National Treasury, Competition Commission and other regulators. While the AG will not be the one collecting the money, Mhlongo said once the certificate is issued, they will make sure that every cent owed is paid back to the relevant institution. ALSO READ | Msunduzi audit head’s urgent application against forensic report adjourned. Mhlongo said remedial action will be triggered by the lack of implementation of the recommendations included in the audit report. “The remedial action is a legal instruction to the accounting officer or authority to take specific action by a certain date,” said Mhlongo. In the analysis of the audit reports for 2018/19 in KZN, Mhlongo said they identified 12 material irregularities amounting to R2,81 billion in financial losses — R2,51 billion which are known and R300 million estimated. These included R438 million for unfair or uncompetitive procurement processes resulting in overpricing of goods and services procured, R55 million in payments for goods or services not received as well as R7,6 million in payments for poor quality work. Mhlongo said a phased-in approach for identifying material irregularities will be followed when they scrutinise the financial statements for the 2019/20 in order to allow for establishing capacity and processes in the province. The Health Department was the first to have their material irregularities screened where an award of R27,54 million was made by in September 2017 for the supply of radiology equipment to bidders that did not score the highest points, as required by legislation. Mhlongo said the process is still underway to address those audit findings and relevant parties have been engaged, including the Provincial Treasury. “The accounting officer plans to take the necessary action based on the revised outcome and recommendation of the investigation.”