Acting KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Transport, Community Safety and
Liaison, Kwazi Mshengu has given a stern warning to brazen criminals that
police will not hesitate to use deadly force if their lives are threatened. MEC Mshengu was commenting following the murder of Constable
Mfihloyakhe Ndlovu (45) from KwaXimba who was killed while attending to a
gender-based violence victim. “Police must not die with their guns in their hands and police
must not be tolerant towards criminals because when criminals draw their guns
their intention is clear and that is to kill police. ALSO READ | Cop shot dead while attending domestic violence scene in Durban “Our message to police is that when faced with hardened
criminals or anyone that points a gun towards a police officer, then the police
must not hesitate to defend themselves and their communities decisively. “It is better to count the bodies of criminals rather than
to count the bodies of [police officers]. It can’t be business as usual when
police continue to die in numbers at the hands of criminals. Our country should
not be run by criminals and police should squeeze the space for criminals,”
said MEC Mshengu. According to reports, Constable Ndlovu and Constable Moodley
were attending to a complainant from the Community Service Centre from
Chatsworth Police Station where she required assistance in respect of domestic
violence. The police officers proceeded to Welbedacht East where when
they arrived, both police officers entered the yard of the property. Constable Ndlovu was standing at the window when the suspect
shot him on his chest above his bullet proof vest. Constable Ndlovu fell to the
ground. The gunman ran out of the house and began firing at police. Police retaliated killing the suspect. Constable Ndlovu
passed away at the crime scene. MEC Mshengu, who
visited Constable Ndlovu’s family on Saturday afternoon to pay homage to the
fallen officer, described him as a dedicated policeman who died in the line of
duty while responding to a case of domestic violence. “We are saddened that we continue to lose experienced police
officers at the hands of criminals which puts severe strain on the police
because they continue to be under attack, and they are not protected by the
communities they serve. “The killing of police officers needs to be confronted by
all of us because it is a direct attack to the state and the rule of law. “This should be the last police officer to die in this
manner, more so as he was responding to a case of gender-based violence which
has been described by President Cyril Ramaphosa as a second pandemic. “The incidents of gender-based violence will not be
eliminated by police alone, but it requires strong family foundations and
active community engagements,” added MEC Mshengu. MEC Mshengu expressed his deepest condolences to the family
of Constable Ndlovu who will be laid to rest on Sunday next week. MEC Mshengu added that the department of Community Safety
and Liaison in the province will activate all community structures and mobilise
them to intensify their efforts in a bid to end gender-based violence and
police killings. He said in the third quarter of the 2020/2021 financial year,
four police officers were killed in KwaZulu-Natal. Two were killed while they
were on duty and two died off duty. The Department previously rolled-out impactful campaigns
such as Sekwanele, which was aimed at galvanising the community against the
scourge of police killings. Through these interventions and other programmes
such as the One Million Signature Campaign Against Police Killings, reported
incidents of police killings subsided.