Maritzburg United are promising their anxious supporters that there will be at least one new player, but hopefully two, to help head coach Ernst Middendorp in the massive search for stability in the DStv Premiership. This follows their third defeat in a row, and ninth in 14 matches — in the league at the weekend — as well as transfer-related “revolving doors” at the club. These primarily featured German goalkeeper Marcel Engelhardt coming in and trusted defender Rushine de Reuck leaving. The 14th-placed club’s managing director and chairperson, Farook Kadodia, says their priority is to find a new centre-back, but they would also like to get an extra attacker before the transfer deadline on February 15. He also claimed on Tuesday that De Reuck’s surprise move to Mamelodi Sundowns last week had to happen because the player’s heart was no longer with Maritzburg. Former United striker Evans Rusike of Zimbabwe won’t be returning to the club from SuperSport United’s bench in this transfer window because of a foreign quota consideration. “Sadly, there is not much available in the market at the moment, but we have to get at least a defender before the window closes,” said Kadodia. “We know that former Sundowns player Wayne Arendse is available, but there is a foreigner we are targeting at present. If that fails, we will have to see what else is available to us. But we will definitely sign a central defender in this window and if it’s possible, we will get one more player for up front. “Yes, we were interested in bringing Rusike back but we wrongly assumed that he had become naturalised after spending many years in South Africa. So we had to stop looking at him because we needed to keep the one opening that we have left for a foreigner, for the defender we targeted at the same time, which we hope to sort out soon.” German goalkeeper Marcel Engelhardt became the fourth foreigner on United’s books last week when he replaced Zambian flop Sebastian Mwange. The 27-year-old from the German lower leagues could not be fielded in his new team’s 2-1 defeat to Golden Arrows in the Premiership in Durban on Saturday because his work permit had yet to be processed, but there is hope he will be able to make his debut on Friday when United host lower-division Sekhukhune United in the Nedbank Cup. Meanwhile, the national knockout competition’s first round proper, or last 32, will run from Wednesday until next Monday. The opening fixtures on Wednesday and Thursday involve lower-division teams trying to knockout each other out at 3 pm, before top-flight sides lock horns at 5pm. Wednesday sees Polokwane City host Steenberg United at Peter Mokaba Stadium and then Sundowns entertain Stellenbosch at Loftus Stadium. Thursday features Bizana Pondo Chiefs making their debut in this round of the Nedbank Cup against Cape Town All Stars at Goodwill Zwelithini Stadium, followed by three-time champions SuperSport United visiting Tshakhuma at Thohoyandou Stadium.