President Cyril Ramaphosa on Thursday committed his government to defeating Covid-19, fighting corruption, the speedy implementation of the country’s economic recovery plan and the fast-tracking of the process to reform the economy. Delivering his State of the National Address (Sona) in the National Assembly on Thursday evening, Ramaphosa said focusing on the above four priorities would, within a space of a year, address the main challenges of unemployment and slow economic growth. The focus on the four priorities, Ramaphosa said, however did not mean that government has abandoned some of its key priorities. Given the damage caused by Covid-19 to the country’s economy, Ramaphosa said, government had resolved to focus on priorities that will deliver quick gains. In the next few months, Ramaphosa said, government would bolstering its support for industries ranging from automobiles to farming as part of a drive to boost the country’s production output. Through the government’s economic reconstruction and recovery plan launched last year, Ramaphosa said, several economic sectors were already seeing an improvement in production output. “All social partners who participated in the development of the Economic Reconstruction and Recovery Plan as part of our social compact have agreed to work together to reduce our reliance on imports by 20% over the next five years. “They have identified 42 products — ranging from edible oils to furniture, fruit concentrates, personal protective equipment, steel products and green economy inputs — that can be sourced locally. “If we achieve our target, we will significantly expand our productive economy, potentially returning more than R200 billion to the country’s annual output,” he said. Ramaphosa also singled out the automobile sector as one of the industries which could be utilised to create several jobs within a short space of time. “Last week, the Ford Motor Company announced a R16 billion investment to expand their manufacturing facility in Tshwane for the next generation Ford Ranger bakkie. “This investment will support the growth of around 12 small and medium enterprises in automotive component manufacturing,” he said. Toyota, Nissan, Isuzu and Mercedes-Benz, Ramaphosa said, were also in the process of investing in their plants across the country, the president said. For the recovery plan to work, it was critical for corruption to be defeated, Ramaphosa said. Government, Ramaphosa said, would be rolling out a number of anti-corruption initiatives following revelations at the Zondo Commission. On the fight against Covid-19, Ramaphosa said government would be rolling out vaccine doses within the next few weeks. “We have secured 9 million doses of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. The first batch, of 80 000 doses, will arrive in the country next week. Further consignments will arrive over the next four weeks, totalling 500 000 Johnson & Johnson vaccines.” However, Ramaphosa made it clear that all South Africans would have to play a role in the revival of the country’s economy and the defeat of Covid-19 if the recovery plan were to work. “A nation that has stood together to confront Covid-19 in ways not seen since the early days of our democracy. “More than anything else, this crisis has revealed the true character of our remarkable nation. It is this South African spirit that must drive our resolve to build a new and more equal economy and a better, more just society,” he said.