Former KwaZulu-Natal legislature speaker and prominent ANC politician Dr Meshack Radebe died in hospital earlier on Saturday. While details around his death remain sketchy, the party’s provincial spokesperson, Nhlakanipho Ntombela, confirmed that he had died, after being hospitalised for a week. He did not reveal Radebe’s cause of death and was waiting to meet with his family before releasing any further information. Premier of KwaZulu-Natal Sihle Zikalala expressed deep shock and sadness at the new. The Premier said "this has been one of the saddest and most painful weeks in the life of the province, as we mourn the passing of one of the greatest sons of our province. Dr  Meshack Radebe served as a Member of the Legislature, Member of the Executive Council(MEC) for Social Development and also MEC for Agriculture and Environmental Affairs. An activist community based leader, during his time, as MEC Dr Radebe earned himself the nickname of “Umkhumbi wokunethezeka” because of his dedication to the delivery of services especially to the poor, and other vulnerable groups." He said Dr Radebe’s decorated legacy is that of leading peace initiatives in KwaZulu-Natal. "He distinguished himself in bringing peace between the warring factions of the ANC and IFP in Mpumalanga Township, near Hammarsdale where he also lived. For this work he, together with his late IFP counterpart Sipho Mlaba, were recognized by the University of Natal and were both awarded honorary doctorates. Dr Radebe was honoured locally and internationally for his work both in peacemaking initiatives and also for his lifetime of service to the people of KwaZulu-Natal and by extension the rest of the country. "In 1993 the community of Mpumalanga was awarded ACCORD’s first Africa Peace Award (APA), which they received in recognition for ending the violence in their community. This was received on behalf of the community by Dr Radebe and the IFP’s late Sipho Mlaba who were instrumental in the peace negotiations that ended the violence." Dr Meshack Hadebe, turned the township of Mpumalanga to be a model for peace internationally. "His preaching of peace together with the late Sipho Mlaba remains a monument and a lasting legacy that many generations will cherish.  His name belong to the hall of fame where the history of heroes and heroines like him who sacrificed and tirelessly worked to build a better KwaZulu-Natal will be displayed. “We have lost a peacemaker par excellence and a great servant of the people.  We have lost a person who believed in reconciliation. We have lost a person who believed in service delivery. What set Dr Radebe apart from many who also believe in these attributes is that Dr Radebe also actively worked in pursuing peace and stability, actively worked hard in pursuing reconciliation and dedicating his life to service delivery. “We lower our hats to the undying spirit of Dr Meshack Radebe for his role in the struggle for our liberation and for serving in the frontline against poverty, inequality and unemployment and for his selfless commitment to the creation of a democratic, non-racial, non-sexist and equal South Africa. "We say farewell Bhungane! Farewell Makhululukhulu! Your work is now done. We will always remember you for the gift of peace and changing the lives of the people of KwaZulu Natal. May the Soul of Dr Meshack Radebe Rest in Perfect Peace!" Radebe, from Maqongqo, was a peace negotiator during the internecine violence, involving members of the ANC and IFP, during the last few years of the apartheid area. He has been in politics for over 40 years. In 2019 Radebe celebrated his 70th birthday, saying at the time that he had been in politics long enough and planned to focus his next years on running the Dr Meshack Radebe Foundation, which helps impoverished people. The foundation has built 42 houses in the province and also offers bursaries to put youngsters through university.