King Goodwill Zwelithini in ICU for diabetes King Goodwill Zwelithini is being treated in hospital for unstable glucose levels associated with diabetes. There is no indication that the king has contracted Covid-19. Popular Hilton College staff member, Tony Richter, and daughter killed in tragic accident Tony Richter, director of school operations at Hilton College, was killed after a truck crashed into his bakkie late on Friday night. His daughter was severely injured and died in hospital on Saturday. Pietermaritzburg siblings’ farming business takes off When he dropped out of high school in August 2019, he wanted to pursue a career in business, but when that did not work out, he ventured into farming. At the age of 19, he is now a farm owner. ANC stalwart, Dr Meshack Radebe, has died Former KwaZulu-Natal legislature speaker and prominent ANC politician Dr Meshack Radebe died in hospital earlier on Saturday. 'I felt the pain of each loss': A doctor’s diary of Covid-19 grief “Although these patients were not closely known to us, we cared and did our best for them. They were in isolation, away from their families, so they did become personally known to us. I felt the pain for each of these losses,” writes Dr Randall Hammond. Sharp rise in prices as avocados get imported The price of avocados has skyrocketed due to the versatile fruit having to be imported at the moment. At one supermarket in Pietermaritzburg two small avocados are reported to be going for R89,99. Peter Brown bridge in Pietermaritzburg to be fixed this month — finally Sanral has promised that work to repair the infamous frail-looking Peter Brown bridge should begin in the middle of this month. Calls for easier access to Ivermectin as black market thrives The black market trade in Ivermectin is thriving, even though doctors are now allowed to dispense the drug legally. Another KZN induna shot dead at home Another Cato Ridge induna, Bylaw Ngubane, has been shot dead at his home — bringing the number of traditional leaders who been murdered in KwaZulu-Natal in recent months to 26. KwaZulu-Natal granny shot dead while sleeping A KwaZulu-Natal granny was shot dead in front of her two great grandchildren at eMakhabeleni near Kranskop on Friday. Bavikile Dlomo (80) was asleep when the unknown people kicked the door open and attacked her.