A former Pietermaritzburg resident, Angelo Van Wyk, was badly injured when he fell into a manhole while visiting the City last week. The 40-year-old was in the province on business and decided to visit friends and family in the area when the incident happened on Thursday evening. “My vehicle was parked outside the residence of one of my friends on Elm Road, (at the Village) when I went to the car to collect my wallet. I opted to access the wallet from the passenger side. “Firstly the street was pitch black as none of the street lights were working. As I proceeded to my vehicle I kicked, what I now realize was the broken lid of the manhole for the storm water drain.” He tripped over it and fell into the open manhole and injured his right toe, gashing his leg and hip as the hole was quite deep. Van Wyk said the open manhole was an accident waiting to happen as not only were the streetlights off, but there was also no signage, danger tape or anything highlighting that the lid was off. “What if it were a kid who had dropped into that hell hole, what then?” He also expressed his disappointment about the overall deterioration of Pietermaritzburg, which he described as “pathetic”. “I’ve never seen the City in such a mess as it is now. No service delivery to the people at all.” Msunduzi spokesperson, Thobeka Mafumbatha, said the municipality had experienced an unprecedented rate of theft and vandalism of its infrastructure in recent years. She said that included their having their metal manhole covers stolen and vandalism of even concrete ring manholes. Mafumbatha said the municipality constantly appeals to the public to stop buying stolen goods because the City’s infrastructure was vandalised to be sold somewhere. “It’s the same thing with street lights, they are repaired today but stop working after a few weeks because of vandalism. There is obviously a market for the stolen equipment but we need the community to work with us to clamp down on this.” She urged Van Wyk to liaise with the municipality, saying that it was unfortunate that innocent people like him ended up getting hurt as a result of the damage caused by vandals to the City’s infrastructure.