The Sharks on Wednesday proudly announced a “perfect marriage” between the rugby franchise and Springbok skipper Siya Kolisi, but he will not be replacing Lukhanyo Am as their team captain at the moment. The 29-year-old loose forward signed a three year-deal with the Durban outfit, with an option to renew for a further period. This comes after he spent 11 years with Western Province. Sharks chief executive Eduard Coetzee said they could not have signed a better player for their mission to become the top side in the land, having finished as Currie Cup runners-up recently. “What an unbelievable day for Sharks rugby! We started something good here two years ago, and this is a special moment as part of that process. “Siya ticks every box in terms of what the Sharks are all about. He is an unbelievable human being. He is the best captain, and he is an unbelievable player,” said Coetzee at the media function, which was attended by several reporters from outside Durban due to the magnitude of the signing. “When people with a shared vision come together, then it is easy to do a deal.” Coetzee said Kolisi would not be operating as Sharks captain so that he could focus on settling in and playing the game as best he could without the burden of being team leader on the field of play. “We want to take that pressure off him. Lukhanyo Am is a great captain, anyway,” he said. Kolisi, also known for his endearing community work, said he was so convinced that he needed a change from Western Province that he decided to financially compensate them for getting out of his latest contract a few months early. He confirmed that he had thought about going abroad for better money in recent years, but realised that he owed South Africa his heart and skills. “After the 2015 World Cup, I did think about going overseas, but because of my work off the field, I decided I had to stay in South Africa,” said Kolisi. “I always said that if I ever left Cape Town, this is where I would want to go. I know a lot of guys here; this is the best place for me.” Kolisi joins several other Springboks at the ‘Shark Tank’ on the east coast, but his family will only arrive later in the year due to school issues mainly. The Sharks will start training next Monday for a friendly tournament that will prepare South African franchises for the upcoming Rainbow Cup that involves European teams. “It is a huge honour and I am proud to be here. I am looking forward to this new chapter,” the Bok captain said.