The illegal occupiers who invaded the former St Christopher’s hostel for pupils say they fear for their lives from other parties that are trying to hijack the property on Albany Road, in Blackridge. This comes as different groups are alleged to be fighting over the control of the Department of Education’s (DOE) property, which comprises several buildings. The hostel was apparently first invaded by vagrants before the current group kicked them out and moved in illegally. The current illegal occupants, who come from different parts of the Midlands, were given a Sunday deadline to move out but they did not. On Tuesday one of them told The Witness they had nowhere to go and could not afford to rent elsewhere. “We’re now receiving threats from people who want us to move out but no one was interested in this property when the whoonga addicts were stripping and vandalising this building,” said one of the invaders. The group moved into the “abandoned” hostel in December when they “stumbled” on it while following the trail of a vagrant who had allegedly stolen the belongings of one of them in KwaMpumuza. They found the stolen goods and chased the vagrants out. “We are not stealing from anyone and we are not stripping the building. We are just looking for somewhere to live and this building was empty so we thought it was okay to stay because the department had been allowing vagrants to stay here for months so why not let us,” he said. He said they also did not pose a safety threat to anyone and the residents of Blackridge were safer with them there than an abandoned property which attracted vagrants. One of the residents, who spoke to The Witness on condition of anonymity, blamed the DOE for the invasion, which he described as an embarrassment to provincial Education MEC Kwazi Mshengu, who apparently owns a home a few houses away from the hostel. “When St Christopher’s handed the hostel back to the department, the community registered its concerns with the department because we knew that it could be abandoned like the other DOE property down the street (on Mayor’s Walk) which is now a haven for criminals.” He said they were mostly concerned about their safety and the negative impact the criminal activity could have on their properties. He said DOE must either give the hostel to Linpark High School or one of the colleges to use as students’ residents. The Democratic Alliance has called on Mshengu to urgently intervene. Both the ward councillor, Ross Strachan and Dr Imran Keeka, who is the party’s provincial spokesperson on education, said the situation placed the local community at risk of criminality, especially those who live close by. They also requested the DOE to instruct the SAPS to investigate the allegations of vandalism or theft at the property and charge those behind it. “The MEC has stated that he would intervene accordingly, and has requested the department to investigate the matter and then take the necessary legal action to remove the illegal occupants via immediate court application to avoid any further delays and complicate the legal process further,” said Strachan. ALSO READ: Blackridge property invaders given ultimatum to leave Keeka said some of the invaders were allegedly armed and there were also claims that members of Mkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) were amongst those who have occupied the hostel. However, MKMVA local leader Babsy Sithole, said the veterans were not part of the invasion and condemned it as an act of criminality. He said the only invasion that the MKMVA was involved in was that of the Aloe Ridge flats and that matter was already before the court. “If there are opportunists who are using the organisation’s name to commit crime then the police must do their jobs and deal with those invaders,” said Sithole. Mshengu said the matter was being attended to.