A 22-year-old KwaZulu-Natal man was sentenced to life imprisonment on Wednesday morning for the brutal rape of an 83-year-old grandmother near KwaDukuza. The elderly woman is physically challenged and relies on a wheelchair to move around, said Natasha Kara, the spokesperson of the KZN Directorate of Public of Prosecutions. She was raped in November 2018 by Siyabonga Buthelezi. “He dropped her from the bed onto the floor and repeatedly banged her head on the cement. The accused then raped her, stole her bag containing R27 and fled the scene. She waited till the next morning and called out for help when her neighbour walked past.” Kara added that the grandmother was taken to hospital for treatment and she received psycho-social intervention at the KwaDukuza Thuthuzela Care Centre. Representing the state, prosecutor Ronita Lutchman led the evidence of a medical doctor who testified about the woman’s injuries. Lutchman also submitted DNA evidence and called the woman’s daughter to testify in aggravation to sentencing. The daughter said that her mother was able to identify her attacker since she had previously seen him with a relative. Kara said the man denied the allegations, claiming that he had spent the night of the incident drinking with his friends and later went home. However, when called to testify in his defence, his friends could not confirm that he had gone straight home. Kara said the grandmother said in a victim impact statement, which was handed to the court that “no words could describe the trauma” she suffered during the incident. “She was a helpless old lady, who could not fight back. She considered the accused to be like her grandson and he took advantage of her vulnerability,” she said. KZN DPP, advocate Elaine Zungu welcomed the conviction and sentence. “Gender based violence needs to be fought vigorously as this type of crime is rife in our society. The victim in this matter was not only 83-years-old but was also physically challenged and thus unable to defend herself against a 22-year-old male. “He knew her condition, and he took advantage of the situation. The victim impact statement has set out the impact this incident and crime has on the complainant.” Zungu said she hopes the sentence will send out a strong message that GBV will not be tolerated. “We will continue to focus on these types of crimes. The prosecutor and the SAPS who worked on this matter are commended. We also urge communities, especially community leaders, to assist in addressing GBV related issues through education sessions, dialogues and stakeholder engagements with the relevant government departments,” added Zungu.