Former President Jacob Zuma — whose refusal to appear before the Zondo commission has once more thrust him in the limelight — on Wednesday received support from ANC branches in the eThekwini region, the biggest region within the party.. The branches, which were represented by their chairpersons, met in Durban to voice their support for Zuma and current ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule. Led by one of former eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede’s key supporters, Mzomuhle Dube, the ANC branch leaders lashed out at both the commission and the courts for “persecuting” Zuma and Magashule. “We are concerned about the ruling that seems to infringe on the constitutional rights of president Zuma. “The courts as arms of state are not above the Constitution and the bill of rights. The rights can only be reviewed by politicians through a parliamentary process. In the absence of the parliamentary process, the ConCourt cannot assume the role of politicians and willy-nilly amend rights that president Zuma fought for,” the branch leaders said in a statement. A campaign similar to the one run by Zuma supporters within the ANC after he was fired by former president Thabo Mbeki as the country’s deputy president in 2005, would be launched. “We will meet all regional leaders and branches across the country and approach regions and sub-regions of the provinces and this will culminate into a national mobilisation programme. “Should we face any resistance and sabotage from those who are abusing state machinery, we will be left with no choice but to act,” Zuma’s supporters said. Both Zuma and Magashule are currently facing corruption charges in court. The ANC eThekwini branches’ support for Zuma come a few days after EFF leader Julius Malema, who visited the former president at his Nkandla homestead, had thrown his weight behind Zuma. Mkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) leaders, who are currently embroiled in a battle against President Cyril Ramaphosa’s supporters within the ANC, will also be meeting Zuma at his home today. MKMVA president Kebby Maphatsoe could not say what the meeting with Zuma would focus on. “It is an open-agenda meeting. We will discuss also the state of the ANC and how we can unite the ANC. “We will also show our support that we are with him, we know that there is this campaign and that is why there is an all-out media campaign to make president Jacob Zuma seem like he is against the constitution,” he said. While there has been speculation that Malema’s trip to Nkandla was meant to persuade Zuma to change his mind around the former president’s decision not to attend the commission’s proceeding, it remains unclear whether he will testify at next Monday’s proceedings as ordered by the commission.