The Democratic Alliance (DA) in Msunduzi on Wednesday reiterated its call for KwaZulu-Natal Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) MEC, Sipho Hlomuka, to dissolve the municipality under section 139 1 (c) of the Constitution. Ross Strachan, DA’s Msunduzi councillor, said the electricity crisis in Msunduzi has now reached a point where life in the Capital City is simply impossible to negotiate. “We are also calling on the Premier of the province, Sihle Zikalala, to lend a helping hand in addressing this crisis immediately by providing an intervention plan to help the crippled Capital of KZN before there is nothing left to salvage.” Strachan said this comes after the suburbs of Blackridge, Boughton, Clarendon, Wembley, and surroundings have been without electricity for over 24 hours and are still without electricity and are now waiting in anticipation for the faults to be repaired. “Areas throughout the city are plunged into darkness and sit without electricity for extended periods without any urgency from the municipality to resolve the problems timeously due to a lack of capacity. “With the second wave of Covid-19, the restrictions and precautionary measures in place for those residents who are either working from home or have children that have started online schooling, it becomes a desperate situation and a completely unacceptable one at that,” said Strachan. He said the DA once again urges CoGTA and the provincial structures to intervene accordingly and provide the necessary support to resolve this crisis as the current intervention is clearly not near enough. “We simply cannot wait any longer as the residents of Msunduzi are now desperate. The ANC-led municipality has once again proved that even under Section 139 1(b) intervention they are unable to run this City and must be removed through Section 139 1 (c) and completely dissolve this Municipality to make the necessary political changes,” he said. Strachan added that the DA will continue to place pressure until this crisis is given the immediate attention it demands.