Memories long forgotten of flooded roads, homes and complete devastation were being re-lived by Ladysmith residents this week with heavy downpours from Tuesday morning resulting in flooding.  On Wednesday morning disaster teams were in the area to assist members of the community. Public Safety and Disaster Management officials were on call to assist with road closures and residents that needed help with their flooded homes. ALSO READ | PICS | Flooding overnight in Ladysmith, KwaZulu-Natal, as severe thunderstorms are predicted for later Twelve Ladysmith residents had to be evacuated from their homes on Tuesday night. Some roads around Winterton were closed off on Wednesday as rain continues to fall said Okhahlamba Municipal Chief Freddie Halgreen. The flooding started on Tuesday after heavy overnight rain. Motorists and pedestrians were forced to seek alternative routes to work and home when roads such as Forbes Street, Lyell and Settlers Drive were completely flooded. Many crossing the old bridge along Khandhar could not believe their eyes, as the river pushed past its banks missing the large steel bridge with just a few meters to spare. Businesses along Forbes Street had to close shop for the day as flooded water rushed past their doors. Residents called upon the localised flooding disaster teams for help as storm water drains could not keep up with the demand of water and said that no maintenance and daily waste contributed to the flooding. Later towards the afternoon, Klipriver had pushed past its banks and flooded homes and properties at the bottom of Van Riebeeck Park. Ayob Vawda, and other residents who live on a small farm in the area, could be seen canoeing in the back yard, saving their chickens, sheep and moving their horses to higher land. “This morning we could hear the flow of the Klipriver, but by this afternoon the water started rising slowly up, flooding the backyard,” said Vawda. Vawda told the Ladysmith Herald that it was like history was repeating itself. “It was like we were reliving the floods of Ladysmith, the worst of course was in 1987.” At the end of September 1987, KwaZulu-Natal was hit by freak torrential rains. Several news reports then said more than 300 people died, while 500 000 were left homeless. It was one of South Africa’s worst natural disasters. Vawda said he prays that this was the worst, because if the water levels continue to rise then he and his family and other residents staying along the Klipriver are in for some serious trouble. ALSO READ | WATCH | Trucks stranded in KZN flooding People from a nearby estate could be seen trying to salvage their property as water flooded their homes. “So much damage has been caused and this is something that we never thought would happen again,” said a resident. Vehicles that had tried to make their way across the flooded roads broke down, while pedestrians could be seen rolling up their pants to cross the roads that were in flood. Some community members rushed to town to see the Klipriver in all its flooded glory. As rain continued to fall on Tuesday, some areas in Uthukela recorded up to 200mm of rain, with 100mm of rain recorded for Ladysmith alone and Van Reenen area was also a 100mm. Dams and small rivers, ‘spruits’ could be seen overflowing. Three truck drivers had to be rescued from their vehicles, after flooding occurred close to Winterton, in the KZN Midlands resulting in road closures. The drivers are safe.