The International Fund for Animal Welfare (IFAW) yesterday welcomed statistics by the Department of Environmental Affairs, Forestry and Fisheries showing a decline in rhinos poached in South Africa last year. However the organisation warned that the Kruger National Park continues to be most at risk. “About 62% of rhinos poached in South Africa in 2020 were killed in the Kruger National Park, show newly released statistics on rhino poaching in South Africa,” said IFAW in a statement. The statistics released by the DEA show an encouraging decline in rhino poaching - 394 rhinos were poached in 2020, compared to 594 in 2019, a decrease of 33%, said IFAW. “Despite this rhinos in the flagship KNP remain most at risk, with 245 rhinos poached during 2020,” the organisation said. “Taking a unified approach shows the battle against rhino poaching can be won. Taking on wildlife criminals is tough, dangerous and life threatening. In addition to congratulating the Department and its stakeholders, much of the credit must go to rangers on the front lines and the prosecuting authorities,” said Neil Greenwood, IFAW Regional Director Southern Africa. “The continued pressure on rhinos in KNP is concerning. As home to South Africa’s largest population of rhinos the animals will remain a target in the cross-hairs of a poacher’s rifle. We encourage focusing even more on giving management and rangers in Kruger what they need to stop the poachers”, said Greenwood. The World Wide Fund for Nature WWF also welcomed the news saying however, that they are "very aware that the
apparent reprise provided by lockdown restrictions in 2020 was only a temporary
pause and that the pressure on our rhino populations, particularly in Kruger
National Park, remains very high". "At the same time, we note the decline of
almost 70% in the number of rhinos in the Kruger National Park over the last
ten years due to a combination of drought and poaching... "The
situation could be far worse, were it not for the hard work and dedication of
our rangers and other law enforcement officials in state, private and
community-owned parks to prevent, detect and prosecute wildlife crimes in the
field and apprehend suspected poachers. "In order to amplify these efforts on the
ground and fully turn the numbers around, we need to address the factors that
enable transnational crime syndicates to operate." The WWF said Environment Minister Barbara Creecy
referenced the draft National Integrated Strategy to Combat Wildlife
Trafficking (NISCWT) which prioritises the need for collaboration to break the
illicit value chain of wildlife trafficking. "We look forward to the formal
approval of this strategy and investment in the skills, equipment, tools and
resources to fully bring it to life. "Corruption goes hand in hand with
organised crime networks and continues to undermine the last decade of
implementation of various strategies to combat rhino poaching in South Africa.
There needs to be focused attention on rooting out corrupt individuals who
facilitate these crimes. "In addition, we need to address the
factors known to cause criminal behaviour to proliferate locally, driven by
lack of local opportunities, high levels of inequality and breakdowns in social
norms and values in societies around our conservation areas."  