Some residents in the city have banded together to revamp and restore the Northdale Stadium to its former glory under the banner of the Combined Citizens Initiative. ANC ward 31 branch convenor Brandon George said: “The reason we chose Northdale Stadium was because all stakeholders involved are currently serving on community structures within the ward 31 area. “Secondly Northdale Stadium is a legendary sporting facility which has been left to deteriorate for more than 10 years. “We also identified several social ills within this community and felt that a multipurpose sporting facility could serve and assist both young and old people positively by getting them involved in a sporting social programme.” George said the project was the start of a broader programme aimed at addressing the many social ills within the Northdale community, adding that various partnerships have been created to ensure it becomes a successful initiative. They have had commitments in the form of sponsorships, including building materials for the vandalised ablution block and court surfaces. Grass cutting and weed killing will also be undertaken, with Honchos Chicken acting as one of the main sponsors thus far. “This is going to be a continuous programme and we are looking to ensure that it becomes a self-sustainable project in the future. ALSO READ: #ProjectProtea clean-up campaign gains steam at neglected PMB sports ground “We therefore encourage anyone who would like to make a contribution towards this initiative to please contact us to come on board,” said George. “Currently we have a range of plans and ideas together with different strategies on how we are going to deal with other social ills within our local community so yes we can safely say that this certainly won’t be first or last project we tackle as the combined citizens initiative so in moving forward we encourage the residents of our city to watch this space!” The Combined Citizens Initiative involves the ANC Ward 31 Branch, Mount View Residents Against Crime, Eagles Basketball Club, Honchos Chicken & Assist Me Now and can be followed on Facebook and Instagram.