Posting photographs of alleged criminal suspects on any social media platform could land you in jail. This warning comes from the police. According to a KwaDukuza SAPS communications official, the South African Police Service Act strictly forbids images of alleged suspects being posted on WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter and the like, until they have appeared in court. The South African Police Service Act of 1995 states, “no person may, without the written permission of the national or provincial commissioner, publish a photograph or sketch of a person who is suspected of having committed an offence” and any person who publishes such a photograph or sketch “shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding 12 months”. She said this also applies to pictures of anyone who may have been a witness in a criminal case. “Circulating photographs of alleged suspects has become common practice especially on community crime watch groups on WhatsApp. Often security companies share the suspects that they arrest on these groups and that is where problems arise for the police. “The practice of posting and distributing images or videos of suspects on WhatsApp groups or social media has to stop,” she said. Speaking to Weekend Witness, a police detective said when a photograph or video of a suspect is shared on social media, or published on any platform before they appear in court, the integrity of the case is undermined. “As an example, say we arrest someone for murder, and this person’s face is splattered all over social media and details of the investigation are shared, if this person has an accomplice, then that suspect is warned and is in the wind before we can even get to them. “This is only one of many ways a case can be jeopardised.” He said a suspect can use the posting of their photograph to their advantage. He recalled hearing of a case in which a person had been acquitted by the courts because they argued that their conviction had been based on a prejudicial identity parade as their photographs had been circulating on social media. The detective said it also happens that a person who is arrested and released without being charged, faces a trial by public sometimes for a crime that is not theirs. “In these cases people become victims of kangaroo courts and ‘mob justice’ and lives are lost, often innocent people are killed in this way.” Verulam-based security company Reaction Unit South Africa, is one of many security agencies who have previously published photographs of alleged suspects on social media. One security company said they had previously posted the images to protect the community. “A lot of suspects are arrested but are set free without being charged criminally. We previously published photos of the suspects we apprehended when we had evidence of their crimes to warn the community. “However, we were made aware that this was not allowed and we now blur out the faces of suspects if they do appear in any of our images on any platform,” it said. In addition to the implications for the alleged suspect and the police, sharing these images could also result in the poster finding themselves on the receiving end of a defamation lawsuit.