KwaZulu-Natal Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu did not take a Covid-19 jab last week as a matter of “personal choice”. Her spokesperson, Ntokozo Maphisa, said “even the president did say that no one would be forced to take the vaccine. “It could also be that the MEC wanted those healthcare workers directly exposed to Covid-19 to be prioritised.” During a recent briefing, Premier Sihle Zikalala had said that Simelane-Zulu has registered to take the vaccine. Zikalala said that more than 15 000 healthcare workers in the province have been infected with Covid-19. Releasing the province’s latest Covid-19 statistics, Zikalala said that a total of 15 829 healthcare workers had been infected since the outbreak of the pandemic last March. READ | KZN vaccine roll-out a milestone, says Premier Zikalala “The majority of these infected healthcare workers were nurses, at 55%. “Of the total infected, 335 … have sadly succumbed to the disease,” he said. The province, which received about 10 000 Johnson & Johnson vaccine doses out of the 80 000 that landed in the country last Tuesday, began the process of vaccinating its healthcare workers on Thursday. “Since the launch of the vaccine, we have vaccinated a total of 1 279 health workers. “We do believe that this is a good start, although we are urging healthcare workers to take advantage of this vaccination programme in large numbers,” he said. Despite scientific evidence showing that the Johnson & Johnson vaccine is both safe and efficacious, some members of the public have indicated that they would be uncomfortable to take the jabs immediately. ALSO READ | Drop in cases doesn’t mean KZN has peaked — MEC Zikalala said the perceptions were being reinforced by those in social media claiming that the vaccines were still “on trial”. “Those kind of comments don’t help anyone,” Zikalala said. In a bid to counter the perceptions, President Cyril Ramaphosa, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize and several health MECs across provinces had their jabs in front of television cameras. There were concerns among some healthcare workers in the province after Simelane-Zulu did not take the jab during Thursday’s launch of the provincial vaccine rollout.