“Early on Saturday morning, I got a call from a resident in
Inanda, saying that there was a big python by their house. When I asked if they
could still see it, the caller responded, ‘Yes, it's eating a dog!’ Woah! I couldn't believe it, I've never had a call like that
before.” This is the reaction of Durban snake catcher, Nick Evans,
when he was called out to rescue a python in the township of Inanda at the
weekend. Evans said raced to pick up his friend, Nick Saunders, to
help him capture the sake When they got there, Evans said they were led inside the
house, to look out a back window. “The snake was lying in some long grass between the wall and
the fence. It had finished its meal. It didn't look like a big snake, so it
must have been a puppy that it had eaten,” he said. Evans said when one catches a python that has just eaten,
nine times out of ten, it regurgitates the meal, and while they were carrying
the snake out, he said he could see the meal coming forward, towards the mouth. “We put it in the open, and out came the puppy, back legs
first. “It was gruesome and rough to watch, yet as someone who has
a great respect for nature, and it's harshness, I found it fascinating. I have
never seen something like this before. It doesn't make me a horrible person. I
love dogs and have two Africanis of my own. “The Africanis puppy looked a couple of months old. It stood
no chance against the snake, and for the snake, it was an easy meal.” Evans said after it had regurgitated, they grabbed it and
put it in a bucket. He said the python was only 2.6m long, weighing 6.45kg. “It was a beautiful specimen, such stunning colours. A meal
like that would have done it the world of good. Unfortunately, we couldn't just
leave it there to digest,” said Evens. Why are pythons targeting domestic animals? Evans said when he drives through the Inanda valley often,
he has noticed that he has never seen wildlife there. “No duiker, bushbuck, monkeys, or scrub hare. Not a huge
amount of bird life either. I'm not saying it's not there, perhaps it is, but
there is very little wildlife.” He said something that he does see, are dogs, and a lot of
them. Often packs of hunting dogs, with an owner. “I have spoken to a guy who hunts in the area. There are
many people living there, some of whom may have been snaring over time… “In my opinion, from my personal observations, there is very
little wild food for pythons. However, there are a lot of domestic prey items.
Almost every python I have caught in Inanda, has been eating chickens. They
love chickens! There's also many young goats, and, as mentioned, many dogs,” he
said. Evans said there is still a good few amount of pythons in
the area, which amazes him with the amount of humans. “Despite being a protected species, they are often killed
for food, traditional medicine, or out of fear. I have seen a few videos of
pythons being slaughtered in the area. “The last remaining Inanda pythons must be living off
domestic animals, due to little choice. One can hardly blame them. Domestic animals are not only
more abundant, but are probably easier to catch, than the more alert wild
animal,” explained Evans.