A 36-year-old man suspected of shooting dead six members of the Khumalo family, that he is related to, at their home in Eshowe has been arrested. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson, Brigadier Jay Naicker, said it is alleged that on Saturday, February 20, at about 11 pm the man arrived at the home of his relatives in Nkanini at Eshowe and called all members of the family together. He had forced the door open with an axe, which was later found inside the house. “The suspect was armed with a pistol, which he used to kill six members of the family aged between eight and 70 years old." The man then fled the scene. ALSO READ | Triple murder suspects in court for Pietermaritzburg farm killings The only survivor was a nine-year-old-child who had hidden herself at the house during the attack. After the killing she cried until she fell asleep. Naicker said detectives worked around the clock and traced the man to Greytown on Monday morning. He was arrested and will be taken to Eshowe where he will be detained for the murders, said Naicker. "He is expected to appear at the Eshowe Magistrates Court soon facing six counts of murder.” The Acting Provincial Commissioner for KwaZulu-Natal, Major General Thulani Gonya commended police officers from Eshowe for the arrest of the man. “I am elated that the suspect is in custody and will have to answer for his deeds. Police officers from Eshowe did not sleep since this incident occurred and worked around the clock to trace the suspect and bring him to book,” he said. Acting KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Kwazi Mshengu has commended the police for their swift action in arresting the suspect. ALSO READ | UPDATED: Elderly man who was shot dead at his smallholding farm in KwaZulu-Natal named “We condemn in the strongest terms the callous and cold-blooded murder of the six family members. However, we commend the police who immediately responded to the attack and now the suspect will have his day in court to answer for this horrendous crime. “The latest crime statistics indicate that murder cases have increased by 10.4 percent and firearms are among the most common weapons used to commit crimes. “We have tasked police to identify all crime hotspots in the province and deploy additional officers in order to beef-up visibility. We will not allow a situation whereby citizens live in constant fear. The fact that a family was attacked in the comfort of their own home is a serious concern,” said MEC Mshengu. MEC Mshengu expressed his sincere condolences to the family of the deceased.