A 34-year-old man was found guilty on Wednesday by the Port Elizabeth High Court for murdering his 69-year-old sex client because of non-payment for a sexual act. Ralton Juan Christopher Koetaan had confessed to killing Jean Lombard (69) in April 2019. Anelisa Ngcakani, the National Prosecuting Authority’s Eastern Cape spokesperson, said that Lombard stayed alone at Hokaai Farm, a small-holding on the outskirts of Port Elizabeth. Koetaan worked for a garden services company and Lombard was one of the company’s clients. From about 2016, Koetaan and his colleagues did lawn maintenance at Lombard’s Hookai Farm. In his guilty plea, Koetaan said towards the end of 2018 while working on the lawn he asked Lombard to use his bathroom as he had a stomach problem. Lombard agreed, but while he was inside the toilet Lombard came in. He started playing with his private parts. He said Lombard told him to go to his bedroom when he was done using the toilet. He went to the bedroom and found Lombard lying on the bed with his pants lowered and his private parts exposed. A certain sexual act was performed by Koetaan and Lombard gave him R620 in return. This became a regular occurrence and he received no less than R500 for each session, said Ngcakani. However, on April 26, 2019 events took a turn for the worst. She said that Koetaan visited the farm after Lombard had asked him to come and do the “deed” as usual. After performing the usual exercise, Lombard told him that he didn’t have money and that he would pay him the next time he came around. Koetaan was furious because he didn’t have money for a taxi to return home and he would have to walk for 10 to 12 hours. He then stormed out of the bedroom, went to the storeroom and came back with a slasher’s handle. He hit Lombard on the head a number of times until he fell down. Koetaan then tied him up with an electric cord. Koetaan then pillaged the house and took a number of items including a 6.35mm calibre browning pistol, ammunition and a cellphone. He also stole a bicycle which belonged to a 59-year-old man who was employed at the farm. This employee discovered Lombard’s body three days later when he went to report for duty. Koetaan was arrested a few days later by police. Senior state prosecutor, advocate Marius Stander, accepted the guilty plea and Judge Irma Schoeman convicted Koetaan of murder, robbery with aggravating circumstances, theft, and unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition. The case was postponed to March 23 for the court to receive a victim impact statement.