Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans
Association (MKMVA) on Saturday released a statement in which they pledge their
support for former President Jacob Zuma, saying  any attempt to arrest him “will lead to
massive instability, that will not be in the interest of our country, or the
African National Congress”. In a statement circulated by Carl Niehaus, National
Executive Member of  the MKMVA, they said
they visited “our
Patron in Chief, President Jacob Zuma, in a very successful visit at his
Nkandla residence, on Thursday”. “… Our
MKMVA NEC visit was intended to express our strong and unwavering support to
him. In doing so the NEC of MKMVA delivered our message to President Zuma that
our membership are solid and united in their support for him.” The statement
said this was underscored by the presence of MKMVA members in full MK
camouflage uniform who formed a guard of honour at the gates of the Nkandla
residence, when the MKMVA NEC delegation arrived for the visit. “This
was not just a symbolic gesture, it was a clear and unequivocal message of
support for President Zuma by the membership of MKMVA, and our intention to
defend and protect our Patron in Chief, from those who decided to make
themselves his enemies, target him, and declare war on him. “Our
message to them is crystal clear: before you continue your insidious factional
political project of attacking President Zuma, and try to arrest him, you will
first have to face us. We as MKMVA will not allow you to further harass,
humiliate, and even arrest one of the most illustrious commanders of MK. Enough
is enough!” The statement
said black, and especially African, businesses are increasingly on the back
foot, and are not getting support from our current government, despite the fact
that the ANC is the governing party. “Black
executives are also not supported, and are constantly under attack and being
undermined. All of this is happening while white businesses are all the time
being empowered, and are laughing all the way to the bank. “The
legitimate fight against corruption has been turned into an aberration, where
it seems that only blacks are deemed to be corrupt and relentlessly pursued for
every misdemeanour, while white monopoly capital is hardly pursued, and treated
with kid gloves. Sadly, it seems that we have become our own worst enemies,
turning on our own and devouring ourselves, while those who colonised us,
stolen our land, bankrolled apartheid and committed some of the worst crimes
against humanity, are still walking free on the streets of our motherland.” The statement
said they “appraised President Zuma of the media statement that we issued on
the 18th of August 2020 in which we expressed our serious concerns about the
factionalism in the ANC, and the resultant failure to implement the radical and
fundamental transformation of our economy, in order to empower the majority of
black people. We reemphasised our commitment to principled unity in the ANC,
and that we see it as our task as MK soldiers and commissars, who are the most
committed and advanced members of our Movement, to work tirelessly for unity.” The
delegation told Zuma that it is clear that since they issued that statement and
approached the NEC of the ANC to help to save the ANC “to regain the
revolutionary heart of our Liberation Movement, and to ensure that ANC once
again becomes the servant of our people - especially the poor - matters have
become worse, not better”. “Evidently
there are those members of the ANC NEC who are not prepared to listen to our
very sincere voice of reason. Instead they have turned on MKMVA and attacked us
viciously. This situation is untenable, and we cannot allow it to continue. It
is clear to us that those who behave in this fashion have to be confronted and
exposed. In general it was noted that throughout the ANC those courageous
comrades who continue to be committed to the official ANC programme of Radical
Economic Transformation are targeted, wrongly accused of being factional or a
‘separate grouping’, and victimised and purged. The MKMVA NEC stated that while
President Zuma is the highest profile, and most outrageous, example of such
un-comradely behaviour and vilification and victimisation, and we are fully
prepared and ready to protect him; we are also committed to defend and protect
all other comrades who are similarly targeted.” The statement
said MKMVA is “committed not to allow the truly committed revolutionaries in
the ANC to be purged, because without them the ANC will never be able to fulfil
its revolutionary task”. It
said they will no longer allow these kinds of attacks to continue unchallenged. “In
this context the MKMVA NEC members noted that the Commission of Inquiry into
State Capture (popularly known as the Zondo Commission) was by the recent
admission of the former Public Protector, advocate Thuli Madonsela,
specifically established to target President Zuma, and make him responsible for
the conjured up, and totally unclear concept of ‘state capture’. “It is clear
from what Madonsela said, that without targeting President Zuma there is no
Zondo Commission. While President Zuma is undeniably the major target of the
Zondo Commission, others who have committed themselves to the radical economic
transformation of our country are also targeted and relentlessly pursued. The
NEC members of MKMVA stated that we have no doubt that the intention is to
arrest and imprison President Zuma, and to destroy those who are committed to
see that our economy is finally placed in the control of blacks, especially
Africans, where it belongs. “As
such we have come to the conclusion that the Commission of Inquiry into State
Capture, and especially its Chairperson, Deputy Chief Justice Zondo, have
become attack tools in the hands of reactionaries who are hell-bent to prevent
the full liberation of black South Africans, and to destroy the ANC. The MKMVA
NEC delegation shared with President Zuma that, as much as we appreciate the
establishment of the Presidential Task Team on Military Veterans, it is now
urgent to implement the resolutions on addressing the plight of military
veterans that have been taken long ago, and that were agreed to once again in
the Task Team. “MKMVA
is concerned that the Task Team is not moving with enough determination and
urgency. The situation of our members is dire, and many of them die destitute
and as paupers. The time for delaying and dilly-dallying about this is truly
over. President Zuma shared our concern. He talked with much pain about how
heavily it weighs on him to see the suffering of his fellow comrades in arms,
and urged us to make this a matter of the utmost priority. “President
Zuma was very clear, and we as MKMVA fully concur with him, that those within
the ANC who want to destroy the ANC must at all cost be prevented from doing
so. We also concurred with President Zuma, that the members of MKMVA, who as
ex-combatants of MK are the sharp edge of the spear of the ANC, have a
historical and critical task to prevent them from doing so, and to protect and
save the ANC. In this context the MKMVA NEC lauded President Zuma for his
strong principled stance not to further attend the hearings of the Zondo
Commission, and to stand up to the extraordinary ruling of the Constitutional
Court that took his fundamental constitutional right away from him, to remain
silent and not to incriminate himself. “President
Zuma further expanded to our delegation about his reasons, which only once
again confirmed us that this is a carefully considered decision, well deserving
of our support It is absolutely shocking that the Constitutional Court, as our
apex court, in the pathological pursuit of President Zuma issued a judgement
that compromised the foundational principles of our Constitution and criminal
law system. “The
fact that it was done by the Constitutional Court does not make it any more
acceptable, it is in fact all the more shocking and serious. The Constitutional
Court, as the apex court, is the ultimate authority for setting legal
precedents, and establishing case law. “The
judgement against President Zuma does not only set an extremely dangerous
precedent of taking a fundamental right away from him alone, but it also
establishes an even more dangerous and general precedent by taking this
fundamental right away from all of us. As a consequence any citizen can, in
fact, now be told that one does not have the right to remain silent. Thus, a
basic constitutional right of every citizen has been compromised in a
fundamental way. “President
Zuma, once again, in no uncertain manner emphasised to us that he has made up
his mind, and that he will most definitely not attend the Zondo Commission. He
explained in detail, and with strong conviction that he is duty bound in terms
of his own conscience not to deviate from the decision that he had taken,
because he cannot be party to allowing our Constitution from being undermined,
and ultimately destroyed. The MKMVA NEC fully concurred with President Zuma,
and pledged our unequivocal and full support.” The statement
said the MKMVA NEC members have undertaken to explain to ANC branch members,
and the broad masses of people in our country, that there is not only one side
to the story – “as most of the main stream media are trying to attack and misrepresent
the reasons for President Zuma’s decision - but that strong ethical and
revolutionary principles inform his decision”. “MKMVA
will also invite President Zuma to deliver the inaugural lecture of a series of
lectures that we will be holding throughout this year as part of our
celebrations for the 60th Anniversary of the formation of MK. MKMVA will ensure
that this lecture will be given prominence throughout our country, and
worldwide, and will be broadcasted on all social media and mainstream media
platforms. It is high time that President Zuma must be given the opportunity to
speak to our nation.” “In
conclusion MKMVA wants to reiterate our now - often repeated - warning that it
will reckless, and foolhardiness of the highest order, for any attempt to
arrest President Zuma to proceed. As trained soldiers we have the tools of
analysis that indicate to us that this will lead to massive instability, that
will not be in the interest of our country, or the African National Congress.
MKMVA furthermore reiterates that we will do everything within our means to
prevent President Zuma from being arrested, and to protect him.”