The tax hike on tobacco products will only drive the illegal sales of cigarettes further. That's according to British
American Tobacco SA (Batsa) who said on Wednesday night they are shocked by the double inflation increase in
tobacco excise at a time when the South African fiscus is still reeling from
the lockdown sales ban and the illicit tax-evading sector is spiralling out of
control. "The
8% increase is far in excess of the government’s planned excise policy and is
another windfall for the illegal market that flourished during the 20-week
prohibition last year and now is over 50% of the South African market. One of
the highest in the world. "The
impact will be disastrous for the government’s attempts to recover tax billions
of lost revenue at a time when the country needs the money the most," said Batsa in a statement. The
legal tax-compliant industry has failed to regain billions of sales lost to
national and international criminal enterprises during the sales ban and the
threat of significant job losses is greatly exacerbated by this dangerous
excise hike. Batsa general manager Johnny Moloto said: “Taxes are only paid by lawful
people.  This huge increase will further stoke the illicit market and will
undoubtedly result in falling tax revenues for government, while illegal
players increase their profits and become even more deeply entrenched. “By
radically departing from its planned excise policy, government is only compounding
the losses incurred as a result of its previous mistakes. “Such
a big excise increase is like pouring fuel on the fire they lit under the
illicit market with the lockdown ban. It is a gift to the syndicates in the
illegal market whilst destroying the legal tobacco market.  If the illegal
cigarette barons were given the opportunity to write government policy, this is
exactly what they would do.” Although
the lockdown ban halted the sale of legal, tax-paid cigarettes, all evidence
shows it fortified suppliers and distributors in the illicit trade. More
important to tax authorities, it has possibly permanently changed consumer
behaviour. Many
consumers – even those who would otherwise not contemplate purchasing illegal
goods – bought illicit cigarettes during the ban. As a result, illicit brands
have become ‘normalised’, even to higher-income consumers. Furthermore,
the ban enabled the establishment and strengthening of new distribution
networks for tax-evading brands, providing these brands with better penetration
into the consumer market. “Today’s
excise increase only exacerbates the problem,” says Mr Moloto. “The more
expensive legal cigarettes are, the more attractive cheaper illicit brands
become, and we are perplexed that Government is not taking serious action
against the illicit trade in tobacco. “More
money will be diverted away from legitimate, tax-paying businesses, further
reducing the government’s own revenue. Meanwhile, more money will go to
organised crime syndicates to fund all sorts of other anti-social activity,
from drug-trafficking to gang warfare. In a year marked by costly mistakes,
this could be the costliest of them all.” 