The DA has referred the KwaZulu-Natal health department head, Sandile Tshabalala, to the SA human rights commission over his “failure” to absorb volunteer doctors and nurses in the province. According to DA provincial health spokesperson, Rishigen Viranna, the department has to take in the volunteers to lessen the burden on healthcare workers currently struggling to cope with the influx of Covid-19 patients. ALSO READ | KZN Midlands running low on pulse oximeters amid Covid worries “Many clinics and hospitals across eThekwini have also experienced long patient queues and long waiting times. “Some patients at the Phoenix Community Health Clinic have indicated having to wait for up to two days before being seen for their chronic medical conditions. Again, these situations are blamed on short-staffing,” he said. Despite health MEC, Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu, having issued an invitation in April for volunteer health professionals to assist the department in its fight against Covid-19, the department could not take them in as it had not put in place a volunteer policy. “As a medical doctor, I applied through the setup platforms within the HOD’s office. However, to date, there has been no feedback or placement within a health facility. “I continuously raised this matter with both MEC Simelane-Zulu and HOD Tshabalala regarding feedback on progress. However, none have been forthcoming,” Viranna said. ALSO READ | KwaZulu-Natal Health Department terminates contracts of several doctors in the uMgungundlovu District health system By failing to finalise the volunteer policy, Viranna said, the department has put the lives of both health workers and patients at grave risk. “As a member of the provincial legislature, I have received numerous complaints from patients and healthcare workers about the significant effects of short staffing is having on healthcare access, quality of patient care, inhumane and detrimental working conditions for healthcare workers. “This is epitomised by the video of a patient at Wentworth Hospital pleading for assistance that appeared. The Department’s preliminary investigation blamed this on Covid-19 and short staffing,” Viranna said in his letter to the human rights commission. The delay in finalising the volunteer policy, Viranna said, was a “violation of KwaZulu-Natal patients’ and healthcare workers’ human rights as set out in Chapter 2 of the South African Constitution. “I bring the commission’s attention to the violations against Section 10 (the right to human dignity), Section 23 (healthcare workers right to fair labour practices and decent working conditions), and Section 27 (right to access healthcare) and its progressive realization. 