An Ashburton woman watching television in the middle of the night was held up at knifepoint by five men who had jumped through a window she had opened for some cool air. “I thought it was a movie,” said Nana Nxumalo on Thursday after the ordeal, in which she and two staff members were tied up as the intruders searched for valuables. Nxumalo said the men went through her neighbour’s yard before they jumped her backyard fence and used an open sitting room window to gain entrance into the house. “I was watching television at around 2 am and I had opened the window because it was hot. I saw five men jumping inside the house through the window where I was sitting. I was so shocked that at first I did not believe that what I just saw was really happening. “I thought it was a movie because the same thing had just happened in the programme that I was watching. I had to blink a couple of times to make sure that I was not dreaming. “When I opened my eyes one guy was already carrying a knife that he pointed at me and I screamed. He said to me ‘We are not here to kill, just shut up’,” she said. After she screamed her two staff, who were already in bed, came to find out what was happening. She said the assailants then started shouting and asking who else was in the house. “They demanded the money and I told them that I do not have money then they got very angry. “They took us to my bedroom and instructed me to open a safe which had about R2000 and they took it.” The robbers tied them up and covered their mouths before removing three televisions, laptops, other appliances and three cellphones. One of the robbers gave Nxumalo one of the cellphones back. “He told me I must use it to make phone calls and ask for help when they have left.” They then demanded keys of a Mercedes-Benz and a BMW parked outside, and loaded their loot. “After they loaded everything they failed to start the cars and they came back to the house and took me outside to the Mercedes-Benz,” she said. ALSO READ | Fear in Ashburton after spate of home invasions. “I begged them to let me inside the car so that I could show them how to operate the car. “I just told them to relax it is very easy to drive an automatic car and I showed them. I did that because of fear and I did not want to go with them, I just wanted them to leave. “After I showed them they got so excited and took me back inside the house and tied me up again.” Nxumalo and her staff managed to untie themselves after the men left and called the police. She said the whole ordeal lasted about two hours and shortly after the assailants left there was a load shedding. “We are grateful that they did not kill us or rape us , but it was the most terrifying experience ever. “We are still traumatised and we do not feel safe at all. Although they took a lot of items in the house we are just grateful for being alive.” The Mercedes-Benz was later recovered in Woodlands. Pietermaritzburg police spokesperson Sergeant Mthokozisi Ngobese confirmed the incident. He said the police are investigating a case of house robbery.