Despite lockdown regulations restricting the movements of people, KwaZulu-Natal murderers were still able to kill more than 1 400 people in the province within the space of three months. This was revealed by Police Minister, Bheki Cele, during the release of the country’s quarterly crime statistics on Friday. ALSO READ | LIVE | Bheki Cele releases third quarter crime statistics Pietermaritzburg’s Plessislaer police station and the Durban Central police station recorded the highest number of murders over the three-month period. Plessislaer Crime Prevention Forum chairperson, Sifiso Mavundla, blamed a shortage of crime fighting resources for the spike in crime around the area. “There is only one police station to service the entire area which covers Mbali, Edendale, Sweetwaters and several other places. “At times, authorities bring more police to the station only to find that there are no vehicles to patrol the area. Police visibility is non-existent,” he said. In some cases, police management conduct special operations targeting amongst others, vehicle theft syndicates and illegal liquor outlets. However, Mavundla said the operations were not effective. “During the operations the crime syndicates lay low and once the operations are over they strike again. “What is required is more police stations.  You can’t have a single police station servicing 19 wards. The so-called satellite police stations are not making any difference as they a closed most of the days." he said. Police have not yet responded to a query on this. According to Cele, the high number of murders in KZN has resulted in the police national leadership putting measures in place to monitor the province’s anti-crime initiatives. KZN and the Western Cape, Cele said, were among the provinces which have regressed in terms of their crime fighting strategies. The statistics also show a sharp increase in rape crimes nationally, with 12 000 rape cases recorded between October and December The fact that some of the rape crimes took place at homes made it difficult for police to prevent them. Cele called on all members of society to get involved in the fight against rape. “In some cases families of the victim and perpetrator meet and pressure the victim to withdraw the crime. “It is a societal matter which most of us will have to be involved [in]; families and friends should get involved,” he said. However, Cele conceded that there were instances where police fail to properly investigate rape cases after victims have opened cases. The police national leadership, Cele said, was in the process of putting in place mechanisms to monitor all rape cases opened across the country’s police stations. Previously released once a year, the crime statistics are now being released quarterly. While other categories of crime, including common assault, have gone down, Cele said police are concerned about the increase in truck and delivery van robberies. Criminal syndicates, Cele said, were increasingly targeting delivery vehicles and helping themselves to cargo, including food and cigarettes.     