Thousands of rands in damage has been caused to the home and property of a Lynnfield Park pensioner, who claims that Msunduzi Municipality has failed to install adequate stormwater drainage. Frans Bezuidenhout told The Witness that every time there is a heavy storm in the city, water gushes “like a river” onto his property, flooding his home and a small flat in the garden. “Due to the camber in Lynn Avenue, the road is at such a slant that the rains simply run off the other properties, into the road, and then straight onto my driveway,” he added. “My driveway has been destroyed, a concrete wall between my neighbour and myself has collapsed and the foundations of the flat have been compromised.” Bezuidenhout said that in the past two decades he has sent the municipality 106 e-mails and made 367 phone calls, asking roads department staff, local councillors and the municipal manager for help. Just three weeks ago he was assured by roads department official Mark Plaatjies that a team would be sent to lay stormwater pipes across his driveway, but no one has turned up and nothing has been done. READ | Storm ruins homes “We have had three storms since then [and] recorded 78 mm of rain in the last one. We’ve had more flooding. The damage to my foundations and yard is going to cause a total collapse,” he said. On Monday morning Bezuidenhout sent the municipality another e-mail, attaching images from Sunday’s storm, which show water streaming into his yard, house and veranda. Officials told him there was no money available for them to hire a TLB and that staff still had to establish where electricity cables and water pipes have been laid. Bezuidenhout says he simply cannot believe that no money has been made available to correct the problem over the past 10 to 15 years. He’s also angry at being told by Msunduzi that he should lay his own gullies and culverts to direct the water past his house and into the next road below. “This will be at my expense, which I cannot afford as I am a pensioner now,” he said.  Bezuidenhout, who estimates it could cost as much as R100 000 to repair the water damage, has also been unable to get any help from his insurers. “They reject all my claims ... they say damage is caused by municipal road storm water and my policy does not cover this.” Councillor Sandra Lyne said Bezuidenhout’s flooding problem was yet another example of Msunduzi’s failure to provide adequate service delivery to residents and ratepayers. “The departments are hamstrung because of insufficient staff, vehicles, equipment and spare parts,” she added. “The officials know what needs to be done but they are not able to do it because of the lack of capacity.” Said Msunduzi municipal spokesperson Thobeka Mafumbatha: “Mark [Plaatjies] is communicating and giving feedback to Mr Frans Bezuidenhout. He will be keeping him posted on developments. “There are contractual issues that needed to be attended to. We have apologised for any inconvenience that might have been caused.”