When he dropped out of high school in August 2019 he wanted to pursue a career in business, but when that did not work out, he ventured into farming. At the age of 19, he is now a farm owner. Amahle Ntuli from Imbali Unit 15 owns Labalo Farm, which is about 100 hectares in Impendle, near Pietermaritzburg, together with his 23-year-old sister, Noluthando Maphalala. Ntuli dropped out in Grade 11 because he wanted to get into the cosmetics business, but it did not work out. He told Weekend Witness that they bought the land about six months ago after spending two years trying to acquire it, learning about the technical and practical side of farming and the business itself. He said when he was younger he never thought he would get into farming, but his sister made him fall in love with it. “My sister used to talk to me about farming everyday, telling me that once we start making money, we must buy a farm. This made me start thinking more and more about farming and I started doing research as well. While doing my research I found out a lot of interesting things and I fell in love. And I must say, the journey has just started,” he said. READ | Watching a Mpendle farmer blossom Maphalala said her love for farming started when she and her mother had a conversation about her grandfather, who ventured into farming after retirement but unfortunately he died before he could reap his rewards. “I started to do more research about farming and I realised there are not a lot of black people that are part of the secondary or tertiary food chain. “I saw the economic impact and the social impact it has, whether it’s providing people with employment or helping out a family with some of the produce you have. I knew I wanted to be a part of that, being a contributor to food security is one of the highest honours for me,” she said The two say they started their operations with sugar beans, which cover about 15 hectares of land. They believe is the “safest” crop to begin with because it doesn’t require a lot of water, which works for them since they can’t afford to get their own irrigation system for now. They are also getting assistance from farmers in neighbouring areas with tractors. “We would love to supply our produce not only to supermarkets, but to create relationships in other spaces that are not looked at like hospitals or even prisons. “The goal is to supply our produce to the commercial sector, like supermarkets, to secure more deals with more middle men to take our produce to the market. But we certainly are not overlooking the informal sector; we’ve seen how the informal sector truly supports farmers. “We’re taking it one step at a time as we are still trying to master crops and vegetables, but in future we would like to venture into livestock as well.” Ntuli said although things seems to be coming together for them, it has not been easy for them as young farmers who are new at the game. “Operations in the agricultural space as two young farmers have been extremely challenging, especially because we are financing ourselves. I do not think we realised just how expensive the input costs for farming are, even costs we didn’t anticipate. But you need to believe, have faith and work hard in order to make things work. “To all young people who want to venture into farming, I would advise them to go for it and nothing is going to stop them if they are determined and prepared to work. However, I would not advise them to drop out of school.” Apart from being farmers, Ntuli and Maphalala also have a cleaning business that they started shortly after Ntuli dropped out of school.