Fed-up ward 33 residents want Msunduzi Municipality to urgently deal with the illegal dumping at the Manor grounds and along Maple Road in Pietermaritzburg. On Saturday, around 200 residents, ward committee members and the ward councillor, Suyara Reddy, signed a petition demanding action from the municipality and other authorities. Manor grounds was once used for soccer tournaments and as a children’s playground but it has become a “stinking” dump site. Reddy told The Witness everyone has had enough of the illegal dumping and wants something to be done. The problem has been going on for years but nothing is done when residents report the dumping to the municipality. “Sometime this week we are going to submit this petition to the municipality and other relevant stakeholders,” Reddy said. “I will then meet with the mayor to discuss how we are going to deal with this matter. It is terrible and no one deserves to live in a place like this. It is stinking and it a health hazard to people who live near the Manor grounds. “This problem did not happen overnight it took years to get where it is now. I have been addressing this issue every month with the relevant authorities but nothing happens. “Although some people are getting fines no other action is being taken other than that. “People are dumping here because there is no one who is guarding the area. “Some of the residents are even moving out of their houses because they can no longer stand the dumping in front of their houses. When they move out brothels move in and this is increasing prostitution in the area and crime. “You find random cars just parking in the area exchanging who knows what. “The vagrants have also found this place as their new home and they sleep under the trees. Last month we had to call the municipal rapid response team twice to come and demolish a shack that the vagrants were trying to build in the grounds. “Children can no longer even play on these grounds because you hardly recognise them and they are not safe.” A resident, who asked not to be named, told The Witness the illegal dumping was so bad that residents couldn’t keep their windows open. ALSO READ: Maple Road resident firm in fighting illegal dumpers despite threats “Although I stay a road away I have seen thick smoke coming from this area,” the resident added. “We had one resident complain she cannot take this anymore that she has decided to relocate. This is an ongoing problem and the property value is definitely going to decrease due to this. “The once green grounds were used for soccer tournaments, kids used to play here and people used to use the grounds to exercise but that no longer happens because of this illegal dumping.” The Witness contacted Msunduzi Municipality spokesperson Thobeka Mafumbatha, but at the time of going to press she had not responded.