A 17-year-old boy who has a previous conviction for rape, was on Monday denied bail by the Pietermaritzburg Magistrate’s Court after being arrested for the rape of a seven-year-old girl. The boy is alleged to have raped the child in Dunveria on December 20. His attorney, Bonisiwe Gasa, told the court that the boy intends pleading not guilty. She said he is being falsely accused of rape due to an ongoing family feud between his mother and the child’s mother. Every time the child’s mother has a fall-out with the boy’s mother, she accuses him of rape, said Gasa. She also told the court that he has a previous conviction. In 2019, he was also convicted of rape and was handed a seven-year suspended sentence. READ | Rape charge withdrawn, Pietermaritzburg man to sue Gasa added that the boy will be in Grade 8 this year. Although he has a fixed address, she said he is in a position to relocate to Copesville. She also said he is not a flight risk and will not interfere with the girl if granted bail. Gasa said he has strong emotional, family and community ties to Pietermaritzburg. The investigating officer said that the boy invited the girl to his house and offered her some food to eat. He then raped her. He also said that the investigation has been completed and DNA results have been submitted to the court. In addition, all the witnesses in the case have been interviewed. State prosecutor Rene Padayachee told the court that the boy started his “criminal” career at a young age. He is a danger to society and bail must be denied.  Magistrate Nitesh Binessarie said it is concerning that the boy has a previous conviction of rape. “At the age of 15 years old he has been convicted of a very heinous crime,” he said. Binessarie added that the boy has a disposition to commit further offences. The courts are inundated with similar cases, he said. If he is convicted, he could be facing a sentence of 30 years’ imprisonment. Knowing this, he could flee if granted bail. The magistrate added that if released, it would “no doubt” induce a sense of shock and outrage. It could also jeopardise public confidence in the justice system. He will appear again in court on March 16.