Baby amputee heals, but dad insists procedure was not necessary The four-month-old Pietermaritzburg baby, who underwent amputations because of gangrene, is recovering well in hospital. Social media abuzz over ‘Real housewives of Durban’ launch Showmax’s latest original series, The Real Housewives of Durban, attracted plenty of interest on social media ahead of its launch on Friday night. KZN doctor fined for inappropriate sexual relationship with a patient A KwaZulu-Natal doctor was recently fined R15 000 by the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) after he was found guilty of having an inappropriate sexual relationship with a patient. Ster-Kinekor starts voluntary business rescue proceedings Ster-Kinekor Theatres Proprietary Limited has started voluntary business rescue proceedings, following months of Covid-19 restrictions. Men steadily join catwalks as pageants are used to uplift communities While pageants have previously perceived to be a female-dominated industry, men have steadily joined in over the years. Opinion | My new moves in virtual meetings"Virtual meetings. They’re a necessary evil now, and emerging from a long one this week, I wondered if there are any studies that show our approaches to them are largely common, or if we’ve all developed our own way of doing and dealing with them," writes Stephanie Saville. Women, have a look at this - The Stingy Men Association revealed An imaginary organisation, the Stingy Men Association (SMA), has taken over social media with men from across the country sharing tips on how to avoid spending money on the women in their lives. Corner of games for Pietermaritzburg kids A new mural at Gaming Corner in Edendale was inspired by popular video games Streetfighter, Grand Tourisma and Fifa. We want promised clinics, says KZN’s LGBTQI+ community The LGBTQI+ Community in KwaZulu-Natal has expressed concerns over delays in the implementation of more gender-affirming healthcare centres that were promised by the KZN Health Department last year. Students are failing because of potholes, say Pietermaritzburg driving school instructors Driving school instructors are at their wits’ end with potholes and unkempt roads, which they say are contributing towards the increase in failures by their students as they try to pass their driver’s licence tests. The great KZN land heist | Violent gangs sell land from under owners In what represents a direct threat to the authority of traditional leaders, criminal gangs ready to “eliminate” those who stand in their way have taken control over tracts of tribal land around Pietermaritzburg.