South Africa has lost one of its greatest peacekeepers. That was the view expressed by Premier Sihle Zikalala, after news that Dr Meshack Radebe had died in hospital on Saturday, following a short illness. Representing the ANC, Radebe worked with the late Sipho Mlaba, from the IFP, to bring warring factions in Mpumalanga township, near Hammarsdale, together. Thousands of people lost their lives in the internecine violence that broke between members of the two political parties in the dying days of the apartheid regime and in the run-up to South Africa’s first democratic elections in 1994. Radebe and Mlaba helped broker peace in the province. Their efforts were recognised by the then University of Natal, which awarded both men with honourary doctorates. In 1993 the community of Mpumalanga was awarded The African Centre for the Constructive Resolution of Disputes’ first Africa Peace Award for ending the violence in their community. The award was received on behalf the residents by Radebe and Mlaba. Zikalala said: “Dr Meshack Radebe turned the township of Mpumalanga to be a model for peace internationally. “His preaching of peace, together with the late Sipho Mlaba, remains a monument and a lasting legacy that many generations will cherish. “His name belongs to the hall of fame where the history of heroes and heroines like him, who sacrificed and tirelessly worked to build a better KwaZulu-Natal will be displayed. “We have lost a peacemaker par excellence and a great servant of the people. We have lost a person who believed in reconciliation. We have lost a person who believed in service delivery. “What set Dr Radebe apart from many, who also believe in these attributes, is that he also actively worked in pursuing peace and stability,” Zikalala said. During his career, Radebe was a member of the ANC’s provincial executive committee, represented the social development and agriculture portfolios as a member of the executive council (MEC), and was a former deputy speaker of the KwaZulu-Natal Legislature. In March 2006, he was part of a government delegation that assisted a United Nations Mission of Iraqi parliamentarians involved in bringing peace to that country. Radebe shared his experience in Mpumalanga and his thoughts on transitional justice and national reconciliation. In its tribute, the ANC said Radebe’s “life epitomised the resilience against injustice and black-on-black violence”. KZN spokesperson Nhlakanipho Ntombela said: “This is indeed a monumental loss for the ANC [and people] in KwaZulu-Natal. He remained their tireless servant and was always first to arrive in their hour of need. We have lost a hands-on leader with the ability to get things done. ALSO READ | Radebe lays into Malema. “We pass our heartfelt condolences to the family of Comrade Radebe, who was also known as ‘Umkhumbi Wokunethezeka’.” Founder and President Emeritus of the IFP, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, said Radebe’s death was a loss for everyone living in the province. “Dr Radebe was a friend of peace and a champion of reconciliation,” he added. “He was one of the few whose commitment to reconciliation between the IFP and the ANC was genuinely and openly expressed. “I recall his intervention during the black-on-black violence of the eighties and early nineties, particularly in the violence-torn township of Hammarsdale. “The ANC’s mission-in-exile commissioned him to engage in negotiations with Inkatha’s representative in Hammarsdale, Sipho Mlaba. Together, they quelled the violence and saved our people from the ravages of bloodshed. “His commitment made us friends, and our friendship lasted for many years, long after democracy was achieved. “It haunts me to know that our last meeting was just months ago in Durban, when we shared a meal in celebration of Sibusiso Ncube’s birthday. “Now both Mr Ncube and Dr Radebe are no more. It is difficult to accept this onslaught of grief. “I can only thank the Lord that I had a chance to pay tribute to Dr Radebe while he was still alive, in the presence of his family and friends at his 70th birthday in 2019. “With his passing, I am left in despair. Without his voice of reason coaxing his comrades to the path of reconciliation, will this journey ever be completed?” After leaving frontline politics, Radebe chose to spend time with his family, especially his grandchildren, and to run the Dr Meshack Radebe Foundation, which helps build homes for those in need and offers bursaries to young people who want to attend university.