Springbok skipper Siya Kolisi is determined to produce the best possible rugby for the Sharks, with there being no qualms over him not receiving the captain’s armband in Durban. And, that’s music to the ears of the franchise’s coaching staff, management and probably also their new investors, MVM Holdings from the United States of America. “I have to start fresh again, fight again. I have to earn the respect of my new teammates, and I am really looking forward to that,” said Kolisi, who has signed a three-year deal, with an option for the Sharks to renew it for a further period. “The most important thing is to play well on the field. What I did in the past does not matter; it is a new beginning for me and I have to do lots of work again. I really want to make sure I am fighting and I am really excited about playing alongside guys like Notshe [Sikhumbuzo, in the back row] and fighting for a position with them.” ALSO READ | Sharks unveil Kolisi in Durban The 29-year-old loose forward said his determination to do well in Durban was also based on the fact that he has not a great time in the game since he proudly lifted the World Cup trophy in 2019, which not only went down as a great sporting triumph but also a wonderful nation-building moment. “I love the Sharks’ style of play. They move the ball around, they have strong carriers and, for me, I am an openside flanker, but I am not a fetcher. I do work at fetching, but I really believe in ball in hand, and I am not scared to do the hard work, as well. I am willing to do my part, but I know, I believe strongly, in playing with ball in hand,” he said. Affable Sharks chief executive Eduard Coetzee explained the rationale behind keeping Lukhanyo Am as team skipper. “We believe that we want to create an environment for Siya to thrive and, at the moment, that will be with the least amount of pressure possible,” said Coetzee. “You know, the fact that Lukhanyo is doing an unbelievable job makes that argument a lot stronger. But, my discussion with Siya was that he must come here and we are going to do exactly what we do with all our players, we are going to treat him unbelievably well. We love to treat our players well because we believe that will get you good results. “We looked at his situation, as we look at every single player’s situation when they come to the Sharks, as unique. For Siya to add more pressure is not going to help him. We want to create an environment where we take the pressure off the players – the same with our coaches. So, we made that decision. “It would have been easy to make Siya the captain, but for his best interests, we will keep Lukhanyo. And, Lukhanyo is a great captain, and they get on well [the two Bok players]. Lukhanyo himself asked when Siya was coming to the Sharks [after listening to the rumours].” ALSO READ | Sharks to publicise Kolisi capture on Wednesday The Sharks are due to start training next week for SA Rugby’s “preparation tournament” ahead of the Rainbow Cup in April.