In spite of the Sharks falling at the Currie Cup’s final hurdle, Sharks coach Sean Everitt has been electrified by the way Lukhanyo Am led the side in the recently completed season, while they wait to learn the way forward on the competition front. The Sharks finished their domestic season in the most unenviable way, going down to their arch-enemies, the Bulls, 26-19 in extra time of the final on Saturday at Loftus Stadium. This was Am’s first season as skipper of the Durban-based franchise and during his tenure, the Sharks never lost a match at Kings Park in Super Rugby, Super Rugby Unlocked or the Currie Cup. This is partly why Everitt has nothing but praise for the great leader that Am is. “Lukhanyo, like I said before, he is a great leader. He is quiet in the way he goes about doing his job and he has got a tremendous amount of respect from his peers and fellow players,” said Everitt. “The coaching staff respect him, he is a respectable guy and I think his leadership, in tough times mind you, has been quite outstanding.” Read more: ‘Curwin is great’: Missed kicks not to blame for Sharks’ Currie Cup loss, says coach The Sharks players and technical team have been given a three-week break before they come back to prepare for the new season, even though they still don’t have a clear idea about it. Last year, South African Rugby Union (Saru) confirmed that the four local franchises, Sharks, Bulls, Lions and Stormers, were going to join the PRO16 or Rainbow Cup after the decision to leave Super Rugby. The big four were to play against 12 teams from Wales, Italy, Ireland, and Scotland. The Rainbow Cup was scheduled to start in March but there are doubts if the competition will actually take place. “We don’t have any information at this stage about the competition, about the season moving forward and surely we are going to get a directive from Saru in the coming days. But for now, we are going on a three-week break,” said Sharks communications manager Novashni Chetty. Read more: Sharks’ season ‘was a win’, according to coach Everitt Should the tournament be scrapped, Saru have promised to make sure that there will be a competition that will get local franchises busy during the period intended for the Rainbow Cup. Whatever happens, the Sharks coach strongly believes the future looks bright for Am and company, after what he termed a successful season in spite of the Covid-19 challenges and not being able to lift any silverware. “There has been helluva lot that happened between the beginning of 2020 to the end of January 2021,” said Everitt. “There have been players that have been given the opportunities and players that have come in, and those players have done exceptionally well. “The players have grown, the leadership group in the squad has grown, players have matured and the culture in our squad has grown exceptionally. There’s a lot of success that happened and you know everyone wrote us off when we played the semi-final and we got to the final and pushed the Bulls to the hundredth minute. I’m proud of the guys; the season was definitely a success.” The Sharks also confirmed that Springbok tighthead prop Thomas du Toit is fine, after being stretchered off the pitch during the final on Saturday.