Be careful out there. That's the warning from the SA Weather Service (Saws) for Northern KwaZulu-Natal and areas as far down as Umgungundlovu. According to the Weather Office, a tropical low pressure system situated along the Mozambique coast  is expected to move slowly east and south-east, resulting in continuous onshore flow into the north eastern parts of KZN today. "Scattered to widespread showers and thundershowers are expected to continue over uMkhanyakude, Zululand and King Cetshwayo District Municipalities." Saws said the rain is expected to start affecting the above mentioned areas as well as parts of Umzinyathi, Ilembe and UMgungundlovu districts. "These rains are expected to be disruptive and result in negative impacts over these areas for the whole weekend. The tropical low will still be situated over the north coast of KZN on Monday and a surface high is expected to ridge in from the south east resulting in constant onshore flow and significant rain along the KZN coast as well as the north-eastern parts of KZN on Monday." ADVICE FROM SAWS: "If possible stay indoors and off the roads (keep an eye on children as they are more vulnerable), avoid crossing rivers and swollen streams where water is above your ankles. "If trapped in a vehicle during a flood, abandon it and climb to higher ground. In buildings, move valuables to a safe place above the expected flood level. Switch off electricity at the supply point to the building. "In rural areas protect/relocate animals to a safe place on higher ground. "Take caution when traveling or avoid traveling as roads may be flooded, with potholes being filled with water and there may be sinkholes." On Sunday morning Saws also warned of damaging winds on Monday and Tuesday, saying that a cold front will sweep past south of the country with a surface high ridging in behind it from the south
east. "This in conjunction with a tropical low pressure system that is currently
over the southern parts of Mozambique will result in a steep pressure gradient
and strong S to SW winds along the KZN coast and adjacent interior on Monday
and Tuesday. The wind speed is expected to reach 35KT gusting up to 45KT in
places at times. Wind is expected to pick up from tomorrow (Monday) morning in the south
and spread northwards. The wind is expected to remain strong on Monday into
Tuesday, while moderating from the south by Tuesday afternoon. This will in
turn result in wave heights ranging from 4.5-5.5m along the KZN coast on Monday
and peaking to 6-7m on Tuesday. The impact of the gales could result in: Localised disruption
of small harbours and/or a port for a short period of time is possible. Small
vessels may be at risk of taking on water and capsizing in a locality.
Difficulty in navigation ( hampered progress due to strong winds). Some
transport routes and travel services may be affected by strong wind and falling
trees. Vehicles traveling on coastal roads are susceptible to being hit by
flying debris and affected by rockfalls.     