The Democratic Alliance wants Facebook to be dragged before parliament to account on several matters including its alleged role in misinformation and the protection of the digital privacy of its South African users. DA MP Phumzile Van Damme plans to raise the matter when the portfolio committee on communications and digital technologies meets to discuss its draft programme for the 2021 parliamentary calendar on Wednesday. “The reason for summoning Facebook - which has an office in Johannesburg - is with the view of ascertaining what steps the tech giant will be taking in tackling harmful misinformation. The spread of Covid-related misinformation primarily through Facebook and WhatsApp - a company owned by Facebook - highlights the need for Parliament to take an active role in curbing misinformation,” she said in a statement on Wednesday. She said the aim of questioning Facebook should be to ensure that the interests of the people of South Africa are protected and not an attempt to exert control or limit freedom of expression. She said SA’s parliament is currently being left behind while legislators across the globe push for social media reform and strengthened content moderation on social media platforms. “In the South African context and in line with our constitution, stronger content moderation would mean removing content that incites violence; and advocates for hatred that is based on race, ethnicity, gender or religion. Full freedom of expression that does not fall into this categories must be protected,” said Van Damme. She said another issue requiring thorough examination and interrogation is to what extent the digital privacy of South African Facebook and WhatsApp users is being protected. She said while governments across the world and on the African continent have embraced innovation and technological advancement, SA lags behind – “an old bureaucracy unable to move with the times to improve service delivery and create new jobs.” “Intrinsic in the digital transformation first and foremost is ensuring that the digital environment has the necessary protections in place. Facebook should be first and Google, Twitter and others next.”