IFP leader, Mangosuthu Buthelezi has called on the South African government to clamp down on the anarchy that is threatening to bring the country to its knees. “As we witness a country aflame with violent protests, looting and destruction, it is clear that South Africa is being destroyed,” he said. While the protests were been said to be in support of the Free Zuma Campaign, Buthelezi said this had become far bigger than politics. “It has enveloped rogue and criminal elements, as well as an army of desperadoes who have nothing to lose in the face of poverty and unemployment. “The state is bring held to ransom as citizens create anarchy.” Buthelezi said while the Minister of Police, Bheki Cele, assured the country that this wave of violence was being handled appropriately, it had not abated. “Can it really be true that South Africa’s armed forces are unable to control the rampage of destruction by crowds of people intent on warring against the state and against those who live by the rule of law?” ALSO READ | Criminality, not pro-Zuma sentiment is driving KZN chaos He said these protests are an internal war against South Africans and the country cannot survive the ongoing violence. “Ours was already a country on its knees. Such unchecked destruction will finish off any chance of recovery or economic survival. If there is any fear in acting against the perpetrators, that fear must be set aside for the sake of us all,” he said. Buthelezi said he recognised the constitutional right to protest, but that did not include the right to violent acts and destruction. “Tragically the culture of violence is so deeply entrenched that our country is reaping the harvest of seeds sown decades ago. “It is no coincidence that many of those committing these acts of violence are seen wearing the apparel of the ruling party, just like those who were at Nkandla,” he said. ALSO READ | Buthelezi slams highly irresponsible behaviour in Nkandla. South Africa, Buthelezi warned, cannot afford a slow response, particularly in the presence of a devastating pandemic. “Anarchy has been unleashed. “I urge our President (Cyril Ramaphosa) to take a firm stand. I know the responsibility upon his shoulders and I will willingly stand in support of any measures he takes to protect South Africa. But I also know that if he does not act now, and act decisively, all will be lost,” said Buthelezi.