Msunduzi Municipality residents have been advised to be “safe rather than sorry” as municipal infrastructure could be under attack. Mayor Mzimkhulu Thebolla said they were aware that the City’s infrastructure could be targeted by vagrants and looters. The warning comes in the wake of unrest in KwaZulu-Natal that has seen people loot and vandalise property across Pietermaritzburg. The City on Monday awoke to news that two malls had been hit by looters. Brookside Mall in the CBD was set alight in the chaos. Thebolla said they have deployed Msunduzi security to protect the infrastructure. He however admitted that the security deployed there could be inadequate. He said he would call KwaZulu-Natal premier Sihle Zikalala and request re-enforcements in the form of the South African National Defence Force. “We want to advise people that it is better to be safe than sorry. It happened at eThekwini, if it happens in eThekwini, we don’t know if it will reach Pietermaritzburg. “People must try and prepare as much as they can. The looting is unbelievable, and should it go to infrastructure we won’t be able to contain or control this,” said Thebolla. He said they have deployed security to protect the infrastructure but added that it may not be enough. “We have mobilised all our security to try and protect whatever it is that we can so that at the end of the day we continue to provide services to our people. “But the problem is that should anything happen anywhere then we will have a problem because our teams won’t be able to get to where they are supposed to work,” said Thebolla. He added that people can collect water and also back up their power using generators if they choose. He said he was also concerned that the police were already under immense pressure. “The second issue is that even the security that we say we have mobilised, the truth of the matter is that it is over-stretched. The SAPS is also over-stretched. This is a very dire situation,” said Thebolla. uMgungundlovu municipal manager Ray Ngcobo said the district municipality’s infrastructure was at high risk. “This is a difficult situation. The only protection is what we would ordinarily have- a security company that council has appointed-Magma,” said Ngcobo. He said the district relied heavily on the help of the police. “We are worried because the police are over stretched, especially when it comes to our strategic infrastructure such as reservoirs and pump stations. The biggest challenge would be that a reservoir gets hit because it is not protected. “The water supply infrastructure remains at risk and the ordinary security that we have is not enough. We are at serious risk,” said Ngcobo.