Former president Jacob Zuma arrived at his Nkandla homestead on Friday evening. The Constitutional Court on Tuesday found Zuma guilty of contempt of court and gave him until Sunday to hand himself to police so he could begin serving his 15 month sentence. He is now in a bid to have his prison sentence set aside. Zuma, who was not at his Nkandla homestead when the sentence was handed down, spent several days consulting his lawyers in Durban. According to neighbours and sources close to Zuma, the former president arrived at his Nkandla homestead on Friday at around 10 pm. "He will hold a family meeting today (Saturday) where he will explain the  Constitutional Court judgment and its implications," a source close to Zuma said. The former president‘s return to Nkandla happens as his supporters, who since Wednesday have been staging protests outside his home, were becoming unruly. On Friday the Zuma supporters, some of whom have been firing shots in the air during the protests, threatened journalists with violence. The tense situation in Nkandla has since resulted in police, who are expected to arrive in large numbers on Saturday, beefing up security in the area. In its judgment, the Constitutional Court ordered police minister, Bheki Cele, to ensure that Zuma was arrested within three days should he fail to hand himself in to the police on Sunday. However, the Zuma supporters have vowed to prevent police from arresting him, with the Mkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) leadership saying its members will form a “human shield” to protect  the former president. On Saturday the Zuma supporters were preparing to hold another protest rally outside the former president’s home. Nkosentsha Shezi, the KwaZulu-Natal chairperson of the radical economic transformation (RET)  - a faction within the ANC supporting Zuma - confirmed that Zuma's backers would be heading to his Nkandla homestead on Saturday afternoon. “We are just finalising the programme,” he said. Shezi could not confirm if Zuma would be addressing the crowd.