Both the national and KwaZulu-Natal government must urgently intervene in the raging protests that currently grip the province before further damage is caused. This is the view from political analysists who said the situation has gotten out of hand. Professor Protas Madlala, on Saturday said the government must deploy the army to help the police. Another analyst, Professor Bheki Mngomezulu, however warned that deploying soldiers would lead to bloodshed. The analysts were speaking amidst unrest which started last week as supporters of former president Jacob Zuma protested against his imprisonment. The unrest has seen more than 30 trucks set alight across and dozens of shops looted across KZN. Major roads remain closed on Saturday as authorities cleaned up debris. “To stabilize the situation they need the army, although for some liberals they (soldiers) are not popular, but the army are the no nonsense people. They are also not known whereas the police are usually vulnerable because they are known by these people," said Madlala. The analyst warned that the looting and unrest in Mooi River may not be linked to Zuma’s arrest. Madlala said people with other grievance may be piggybacking on the protests that started since Zuma’s handed himself over to the police on Thursday morning. “That spot (in Mooi River) is always targeted by truck drivers who are aggrieved that trucking companies employ foreigners." “Quite a number of these incidents that have been reported are because people are opportunistic. There are people who are aggrieved for various reasons now they are using the name of Msholozi (Zuma),” said Madlala. Madlala said government needed to step in immediately, be proactive and must deploy soldiers along the major routes. However, Mngomezulu warned that deploying the army could lead to bloodshed. He was of the view that sad the unrest in KZN would be resolved once the courts correct its mistake. He said mistakes were made in how Zuma’s case had been handled. “What we see happening is a result of something that went wrong. What we can do is correct something that went wrong because if it is not resolved there will be death. “If one or two people die this situation will get out of control,” said Mngomezulu.