What happened at Mooi River was about pure criminality, and was not a protest for Jacob Zuma. A source who was in Mooi River and watched the burning of trucks and looting at shops on Friday night has told The Witness that 90% of those who took part in the “rioting” were “using the opportunity to smash stuff and steal”. He asked not to be identified. “It was not about Zuma. They were not singing pro-Zuma songs, or saying ‘Free Zuma’. They didn’t bring a memorandum. They used the opportunity to get stuff they wanted. That spot at Mooi River is always a problem. It is the criminal element at play.” The man said the media were portraying the situation in the wrong way. “The more the media says this is about Zuma, the more you’re uplifting him. It's criminals who are not interested in the politics." He said police were short of manpower at the Mooi River scene. “There were over 200 people in the road and only around 10 police members there. What were they supposed to do? Start shooting people? That would have caused chaos. There were gunshots which sounded like 9mm fire in the town, but I don't know if that was police or the looters.” He said the crowd looted a bottle store, a cellphone shop, food and clothing shops. He said the first trucks were set alight on the South-bound lane of the N3. “The other trucks were trying to get into the truck stop so they could be safe. As they were stopped on the road people were yelling, ‘Steal the diesel’. As trucks on the South-bound tried to inch past the burning trucks, they too were set alight. It takes nothing to light a truck. They burn easily. “What happened may have been started by someone who was a Zuma supporter but the people who ran through town were chancers who wanted to steal stuff for nothing.” He also slammed the sentiment that said the army should be deployed. “This would be totally the wrong thing to do. Soldiers are trained to shoot and fight a war, not to police society. The moment the army comes in, they’ll use military tactics and people will die. “ Asked if he thought the police could have done anything better, he said that police from other provinces should have been deployed to KZN days ago. “They were reactive, not proactive. They should have foreseen this. And there are not enough police on the ground, they need to beef up numbers. It needs foresight and forethought.” He said any criticism of the police in KZN at this time is unfair. “The public are not in the police’s shoes.” He said the chaos was caused by criminals, not Jacob Zuma supporters. 