Correctional services have reiterated that former president, Jacob Zuma, will not get any preferential treatment in prison. "The former president is not getting any preferential treatment. He will be treated like any other offender that is within our facility," said Arthur Fraser, the national commissioner of correctional services. “It's important to indicate that once a person gets handed over to our facility, we take full responsibility as a department, so security arrangements of the former president become the responsibility of the department,” he said on Thursday. Zuma handed himself over to the Estcourt Correctional Centre in the early hours of Thursday to serve his 15-month jail sentence. Justice Minister, Ronald Lamola, held a press briefing outside the centre on Thursday after checking in on the former president. Ramola indicated that Zuma will be eligible for parole after serving a quarter of his 15-months sentence  which is three months and 22 days. Zuma is currently being kept in the prison's hospital wing as part of a mandatory 14-day quarantine for all new inmates, said Lamola. He said Zuma was in good spirits and had eaten his breakfast on Thursday morning. “He indicated that he is fine, he's in good spirits and that we can tell the country that he is in a dignified environment,” said Lamola. The Estcourt prison was completed in 2019 and according to locals, has a “state of the art” hospital. It has a capacity to house 512 inmates. Lamola added the Constitutional Court order was not binding for Zuma to be incarcerated at the Westville prison. Zuma has publicly said that being sent to prison was akin to being sentenced to death due to his advanced age (79) and health problems. On Thursday Mpumi Hadebe, head of Estcourt Correctional Centre, said Zuma would be entitled to apply for medical parole like any other inmate. “We have our (independent) medical board that does in-depth assessments to check if he qualifies according to stipulations,” she said. On Friday, Judge Bhekisisa Mnguni is expected to deliver his ruling on Zuma's application to have his warrant of arrest suspended until all his legal matters are settled. Zuma applied for a rescission of the Constitutional Court judgement which found him guilty in contempt of court. Lamola said he wouldn't pre-empt the court ruling and will make a decision once the judgement is delievered.