Former president Jacob Zuma's supporters, who were the main stumbling preventing police from arresting him, are unlikely to gather at his Nkandla home to prevent his arrest before midnight on Wednesday. Several key Zuma supporters who since Tuesday last week have been mobilising protesters outside his home, told The Witness there were no plans to stage demonstrations outside his home on Wednesday. “As far as we know there are no plans to bring people to Nkandla today,” a key Zuma supporter said. While the Zuma supporters' no-show has been attributed to amongst other things, the ANC leadership’s threats to charge party members involved in the protests, another key former president's supporter, Thando Khuzwayo, said the mass protests would continue. “There may be no plans to go to Nkandla today, but the protests have certainly not been called off. “The bottom line is that we will not allow a situation where Msholozi (Zuma) is sent to jail," said Khuzwayo, who is also a councillor in eThekwini.. In an unexpected twist of events, the ANC national executive committee (NEC) on Wednesday suspended Mkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) national spokesperson, Carl Niehaus, who is one of Zuma's prominent supporters. This was in relation to the "inflammatory speeches" that he allegedly made during the demonstrations that have been held outside the former president's home since last week. Meanwhile, Police Minister, Bheki Cele, was on Wednesday in last ditch attempt to convince Zuma to hand himself to police by midnight in order to comply with a ConCourt order directing him to arrest the former president. According to sources within the NEC, senior party leaders requested Cele to first engage with Zuma before police could move into Nkandla and arrest him. Cele, who was previously quoted saying police did not want Zuma's arrest to result in “loss of life”, was rumoured to be on his way to Nkandla for a meeting with Zuma on Wednesday afternoon. "Even though Zuma missed an opportunity to ensure that his arrest was a dignified one by handing himself to the police as per the ConCourt's order, storming into his home and putting him on handcuffs should be a last resort. "That's why it was felt that the police minister should first give Zuma an opportunity to hand himself to the nearest police station," the ANC NEC member said. Zuma supporters have since Tuesday been converging outside his Nkandla home in a bid to prevent police from arresting him. However, by Wednesday afternoon, the Zuma homestead, which in recent days have been a hive of activity, was deserted, with only a handful of members of the MKMVA on site The ConCourt imposed the 15-month jail sentence on Zuma after he had disobeyed the court's order compelling him to appear before the Zondo Commission of Inquiry into allegations of state capture. Zuma has lodged papers with both the Pietermaritzburg High Court and the ConCourt in a bid to have his sentence and conviction set aside. Earlier in the week Cele wrote to the ConCourt asking the court whether police should go ahead and arrest Zuma despite the fact that the court has agreed to consider his application seeking its judgment to be set aside. At the time, Cele said he would first wait for the ConCourt 's response. However, on Wednesday Cele said police would arrest Zuma irrespective of whether the ConCourt has responded to his letter.