Minister of Justice and Correctional Services Ronald Lamola has reassured all South Africans that former president Zuma will be afforded dignity throughout his term of incarceration. Lamola confirm that former president Jacob Zuma was admitted into the Estcourt prison in the early hours of Thursday in compliance with the Constitutional Court order. Lamola said this was not a moment of celebration or triumphalism, but a moment of restraint and to be human. “In line with our mandate as correctional services to treat all inmates in terms of the Nelson Mandela rules which are universal rules for the treatment of inmates. “Rule one is emphatic; all inmates shall be treated with the respect due to their inherent dignity and value as human beings,” he said. The department said Estcourt prison is a Medium B Facility which houses both youth and adult inmates, it was opened by the department’s former minister Michael Masutha in 2019. Lamola said this is a new generational correctional centre with an approved bed capacity of 512 inmates. It also has a hospital section. As a precaution and in line with Covid-19 measures, Lamola said Zuma will be placed in isolation for a period of 14 days. Furthermore, he will be assessed by their medical team in conjunction with the South African health military service and this will determine the conditions of his incarceration. Lamola said this assessment is done to determine the major risks and needs of the offender. A complete profile report will then be submitted with recommendations to the case management committee. “This process will assist to determine the appropriate classification of the former president. All of these systems are in place to ensure that incarceration is done in a manner which is not retributive, but humane.” Lamola said it should be noted that in terms of Section 73 (6 A) of the Correctional Services Act, an offender serving a determinate or cumulative sentences of not more than 24 months, may not be placed on parole or day parole until the offender has served either the stipulated non-parole period, or if no non-parole period was stipulated, a quarter of the sentence. “In this case, there is no stipulation for the non-parole period, this effectively means that the former president will be eligible for parole once a quarter of his sentence has been served. “We want to assure all South Africans that Former President Zuma will be afforded dignity throughout his term of incarceration,” said Minister Lamola.