The KwaZulu-Natal police on Monday arrested seven suspected armed robbers while they were  being cleansed after allegedly robbing a business in the Bergville area. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said at around 8 am on Monday, seven armed men entered a business premises at the Upper Tugela in the Bergville area and robbed employees of an undisclosed amount of cash. She said they stole the cash and drove away in their gateway car. The matter was reported to the police and a case of robbery was opened for investigation. Mbele said Okhalamba police received information that the men, who were traveling in two cars were seen at a traditional healer’s residence for cleansing and protection. “Police proceeded to the traditional healer’s homestead in KwaDukuza where they spotted the ... vehicle and approached the suspects. “The suspects spotted the police and ran towards the Woodstock dam and jumped inside. Five suspects were arrested in the river and two suspects were arrested at the homestead. A vehicle belonging to one of the suspects was also seized,” said Mbele. She said a 9mm pistol and folded packet from a security company were recovered at the traditional healer’s home. Mbele said further investigation led the police divers to the nearby river where one firearm was found and another firearm was found in the bushes close to the same river. She said the men may also be linked to two robberies, which took place in Ladysmith and Winterton. “It is alleged that on July 5, 2021, at 12:35, a group of armed men entered a shop on Springfield Road in Winterton and demanded cash and cellphones from the employees. At gunpoint, they removed cellphones and an undisclosed amount of cash before they fled in their gateway bakkie. A case of robbery was opened at the Winterton police station for investigation,” said Mbele. She said the third incident took place also on July 5 just before 6 pm. She said security guards were travelling along the R616 when an unknown car blocked their path. “The occupants of the ... vehicle shot at the security vehicle and as a result, three tyres burst. The suspects instructed the security guard to open the door and deprived him of his service firearm. The security guard heard a loud explosion, and he observed the suspects removing cash from the vehicle.” Mbele said the suspects sped off in their getaway car with an undisclosed amount of cash. A case of robbery was opened at Ladysmith police station for investigation. She said the men are aged between 30 and 40 and will appear in court soon, facing charges of robbery and illegal possession of firearms.