Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi has slammed the “highly irresponsible” behaviour of the crowds gathered in Nkandla. “When one watches the people congregating at Nkandla, there is barely a facemask in sight. They are jeopardizing their lives and the lives of every one of us in whose midst they are living. That is the greatest irresponsibility of all,” he said. ALSO READ | WATCH | Nkandla turns into a great big party for some Buthelezi was speaking to the media on Monday where he clarified that he was speaking as an elder statesman and not in his capacity as an Inkatha Freedom Party member or the Prime Minister of the Zulu nation. “I am troubled by what is happening at Nkandla. It is simply wrong. Our people there are challenging the state and in doing so, they are challenging all of us who are guided by the law,” he said. Thousands of people have descended on the Nkandla homestead of former President Jacob Zuma after he was sentenced by the Constitutional court to 15 months in prison. Zuma had until Sunday (July 4) to hand himself over to the police and failing that, Police Minister, Bheki Cele had until Wednesday to arrange his arrest (July 7). Zuma has applied for a rescission of the constitutional judgement and a temporary interdict of his arrest which will be heard on Tuesday at the Pietermaritzburg High Court. Buthelezi also had sharp criticism for the “mfeketho” (weak) AmaZulu regiment leader, Maqhawe ‘Mgiliji’ Nhleko who led a regiment to Nkandla without the Zulu King’s blessing. “It was a very irresponsible demonstration with some people claiming they are Amabutho (Zulu regiment),” said Buthelezi. “Everything that was happening there was designed to leave an image that the Zulu royal family is part and parcel of this, which it is not.” Buthelezi said he will be sitting down with King Misuzulu KaZwelithini on Tuesday to discuss the matter of Amabutho in Nkandla. Buthelezi added that he sympathised with Zuma that prison would not be good for him at his advanced age of 79. In a press conference on Sunday, Zuma said to sentence him to prison would be akin to sentencing him to death. Despite having a cordial relationship with Zuma, Buthelezi said he has not spoken to him. “It would be presumptuous of me to advise him as ANC leaders, including the premier (Sihle Zikalala) have been going down there to advise him,” said Buthelezi. “Judging by his utterances, it was like pouring water on a duck’s back as he is intransigent about going to prison.”