Stephanie Saville: What made you choose a hitman for the main protagonist of your book? Nathi Olifant: I thought it would be different and fresh to choose a hitman as the main protagonist. After interviewing a hitman serving life in one of KZN’s jails, I just thought perhaps no-one actually understands the fears, the vulnerability that these messed up individuals experience, from the initiation phase to accomplishment. SS:Why did you think this story needed to be told? NO: I took the decision in 2017, when I was still working for the Sunday Times and I had been sent to Glebelands Men’s Hostel to interview people about their plights. That was after the death of former ANCYL secretary-general Sindiso Magaqa. It had emerged that the hitman who eliminated him came from Glebelands. I had always wanted to write crime fiction and this bloody and dreaded hotel became my focal point, and I knew I wanted to tell this story but in a different literal way that conforms with crime fiction. SS: How did you learn so much about the gangster underworld? NO: I guess being a crime writer for The Witness also assisted, aided and abetted my passion for crime fiction. But I had always known that it would a tough challenge because I would not do it like Stephen King, James Patterson or John Grisham, or even South Africa’s crime-fiction master Deon Meyer. However, I am a writer and I have a burning passion for crime fiction and the gangster underworld. I have been reading crime fiction for as long as I was a teenager, after being introduced to James Hadley Chase. I did attempt it, I wrote a number of crime short stories before I became a fully-fledged journalist, and got published by Drum and the now defunct Pace magazine. However, I had to defer that passion for the next 20 years when I “had to chase that scoop” in newspapers. When I worked as a crime writer for The Witness under the tutelage of the slain Elaine Anderson, who was the paper’s crime writer, I learnt a lot about the underworld through stories of the Curry Mafia and others. Ironically, I feature a relic member of the Curry Mafia in my next book, which is a sequel to this one. When the stories of Brett Kebble and Glenn Agliotti surfaced, I knew I had to write about the underworld, especially for my next project. I have linked the story to the current one, which is more of a taxi industry underworld story. South Africa is alive with these kind of stories and I want to play my small part in telling them. SS: Who taught you about the rituals Mazwi underwent? NO:  I almost did not do this one until I decided that I need those Mkhanyakude/Mhlabuyalingana inyangas who know these rituals. I could not believe it myself. I interviewed two of these traditional healers who were kind enough to give me a clearer picture of how these rituals are done. It’s a scary part of the entire process. I remember writing this chapter at midnight and I was even scared of what I was writing, Stephen King kinda stuff! It was rewarding and fulfilling though, to almost nail it. SS: We all learnt a lot reading about Mazwi. What did he teach you? NO: He taught me a lot. Writing about him taught me how to build a flawed but loveable character. It taught me to think like a criminal and throughout the 20 months I wrote his story I literally lived in him. Moreover, I learnt to walk the path, using my keyboard, of a person I never knew existed. I guess part of the creative writing qualification I have aided me to also teach the author about this character. SS: What’s coming next in terms of novels? NO: Blood, Blades and Bullets — Anatomy of a Glebelands Hitman, was initially not going to have a sequel, but months before I finished it I knew I had to take the story further. I am currently working on book two, with a working title The Fugitives. Those who have read the current offering will sort of get an idea, but is it what it actually is? I am hoping for the completion of a trilogy. But all I ever want to write is crime fiction with good, hard lessons on life. In The Fugitive I am delving more into underworld, cross-border crime, crime intelligence, political duplicity, and it’s all building around crime lord Zenzele, Mazwi’s handler. SS: Did you expect your book to have gained such a following? NO: I did not expect this book to be such a hit. I remember when I posted a roughly drafted chapter on Facebook back in April 2019, my page went berserk. I sort of knew I had hit the right notes. I continued posting more chapters in the following months until I stopped and I knew I needed to finish this 500-plus page book. What followed has been mind-boggling for a self-published book. SS: Can you reveal how many copies have been sold roughly so far? NO: Just over 2 000 copies, including those in retail and those sold from the boot of my car. I never thought I’d sell even 100 copies, but when I released it I set up at some coffee shop on Durban’s Florida Road and I just could not keep up with the traffic of buyers that day. I had to order 300 copies from the printers and 250 of those were sold on the day. SS: How was the process of writing fiction after years of being a journalist? NO: I really must admit that it was very difficult. Luckily for me I had a base and foundation on which to build since I had already studied creative writing and had dabbled in crime fiction through those short stories for magazines. SS: When did you find time to write? NO: My job as a government communicator does not afford me time to write, but I have tried to squeeze in those hours at midnight. I have always done well at writing at midnight. That’s the only time I could find time to write. SS: Anything else you want to tell the reader? NO: Well, dear reader, if you are a fan of crime fiction I am pledging to feed that passion and give you good doses. But I also invite you to visit either Exclusive Books or Bargain Books to get your copy because … what do they say about the taste of the pudding? Ha, ha, ha.  EXCERPT FROM THE BOOK Chapter 33 On the Wednesday before the Reed Dance, Zizwe called me to Pinetown to a house I did not know. I would soon learn that it was his. It was a modest home. The house was not well-looked after and appeared desolate. It had overgrown lawn and hedges. I did not think anyone lived there, until I saw three dogs on leashes. “One of my guys lives here,” he said, as he led me to a basement. He switched on the light and opened a strongroom. “I’m worried that you are only using a pistol. Induna asked me to show you that there are lots of tools here if you need them. But you only use these for jobs sanctioned by us.” There were three AK47s, an assortment of R1s and R4s, about seven 9mm pistols and a bottle that looked similar to the one Baba Mahamba gave me. “That’s Baba Mahamba’s venom. You can use it whenever you want it. I hardly ever need it. “These are my weapons. You will hire them for R2 500 each if you need them. It’s just insurance,” he laughed. I thanked him for trusting me with his weapons. He then told me that I would be part of Zenzele’s entourage to Nongoma for the Reed Dance. He said we would leave on Friday midday. Sabelo, Zikhona and Kim would stay behind. I was thrilled to be out of Durban. Zenzele’s paranoia meant that we were to use his black Mercedes-Benz Viano because it was an armoured vehicle. The vehicle rode lower and Zizwe said it was due to its ballistic protection panels. “Safety is a moving target, you have to pre-empt if not predict it,” said Zazi. Like that, we left for the Reed Dance.  Chapter 34 “State of chaos and panic” The phone rang. I ignored it. Who in their right mind would allow himself to be distracted? The Reed Dance was a thrilling affair. The phone rang for the third time. My belt tightened. I checked it. It was Zikhona. What did she want? I pressed the green button to answer. She was crying and screaming. I moved away from the noise. “What’s wrong, Zikhona? What happened?” She cried. I moved a few steps further away from the crowds. I asked her to calm down and tell me what had happened. “They took, Kim. I cannot get hold of Uncle Zenzele. They shot Sabelo …” she cried. “What?” “They came here, knocked down the gate, shot Malum’ Sabs and took Kim. I don’t know them …” She cried. “Listen to me. Are you home? Are you safe?” “I’m alone and I’m afraid. Sabelo is not breathing.” I needed to quickly find Zenzele and the twins. Poor Zikhona, she was seriously shaken and hysterical. I located them sitting inside the Viano drinking. Take a deep breath, fasten your seat belt, and get ready for the ride of your life. Stephanie Saville reviews, Blood Blades and Bullets Blood Blades and Bullets comes at you hard and fast, and just when you think the momentum is getting ready to brake and let you catch your breath, it comes back at you even faster. Enjoy the adrenaline rush. I know I did. If you think the subject matter is farfetched, or something that doesn’t happen here in KZN, think again. You only have to read recent headlines to see that the gang underworld is here. It moves among us. That house that’s in your road where an array of expensive cars roll up with mysterious people who don’t want to mix with their neighbours? That taxi route that there’s a simmering dispute over? The tender that’s worth big bucks but someone’s standing in the way? The farm murder that they’ve never arrested anyone for? The political murders that are never solved? Well-known KZN journalist and now government media communicator Nathi Olifant’s book’s main character Mazwi has grown up in rural KZN. His family is poor and he’s just an ordinary pupil, trying to make his way in life. One day he witnesses a murder while walking in the forest near his home. He sees a man tied to a tree, bleeding and begging for his life as two men torture him. A black Mercedes is parked nearby. He knows this is something he shouldn’t be seeing and he tries to stay still, hidden in the undergrowth. But, in a life defining moment, his presence is discovered and the assassins scare the hell out of him as they catch him, demanding his silence in return for his life.  This, reader of action-filled novels, is the start of it all. The book follows Mazwi’s subsequent descent into hard-core criminality. He’s trained to be an assassin and gets to know which police officers are corrupt and acting in the interests of the gangsters, and which he must be careful of. Part of his training takes the form of muthi rituals that he must undergo, and for readers who aren’t initiated into how these work, it makes for riveting reading. It’s hardcore, and raw in its realism, and this adds to the sense that you’re reading an account of something that really happened, based on real people, rather than some flowery fictionalised story. The book has a sensitive side too. Assassins are real people after all. Cut them, they bleed. Cross them, they hurt inside — and then they hurt you. Mazwi, the nemesis of many, has a tenderness which is revealed in his love for the women in his life and his genuine desire to help his poverty stricken family as he starts to make money from killing the strangers he’s tasked to eliminate. I found the book gave me a new awareness of what real-life izinkabi could be like and some small inkling of what it must be like to live that life. If lifted the lid on the mystery of gangsterism and the crimes they commit. It opened up the world of the hostel dweller and what happens in some of the most notorious hostels. I admit openly that Nathi Olifant is an ex-colleague and a friend, but that had little to do with my immersion in the story. It was a page turner I could not put down, but even more than that, it was an education into a facet of life I know exists but knew too little about how it works.