Twenty seven motorists were caught in a roadblock on the M4 Ruth First Highway in Durban on Thursday afternoon for various traffic offences. During the roadblock 180 vehicles were stopped in less than two hours resulting in 27 prosecutions for different traffic offences. These range from drivers caught driving unlicensed vehicles, driving without driving licenses and driving unroadworthy vehicles. The MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs Ravi Pillay, together with MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison Neliswa Peggy Nkonyeni, visited the roadblock during unannounced compliance inspections at various establishments in uMhlanga, north of Durban. Nkonyeni said the roadblock also focused on ensuring that public transport operators and commuters complied with Covid-19 regulations including the wearing of masks. The visits were part of provincial government’s effort to monitor compliance with Covid-19 regulations under the adjusted level four lockdown, as infections continue to rise. Sites visited included restaurants, a retail supermarket and a hotel along the normally bustling Chartwell Drive. This forms part of the province’s new battle plan to counter rising Covid-19 infections as announced by Premier Sihle Zikalala this week. The premier said the plan focuses on hotspots and beefing law enforcement teams and operations throughout the province. The compliance monitoring operation also served as an opportunity for the MECs to take stock of the impact of Covid-19 on businesses and tourism establishments. Pillay said: “…on the side of compliance, generally here in this area, it has been reasonably good. There is a business in this vicinity that was closed down months ago for non-compliance with licensing requirements and illegal sale of alcohol. That is just an example that there is no area that is exempt from compliance.” Nkonyeni said the multi-disciplinary operation will become a regular feature in the province in the coming days and will be intensified to ensure compliance with the regulations. “We will be going everywhere. We will be checking bus ranks and taxi ranks to ensure that people are really compliant with Covid-19 alert level four regulations,” said MEC Nkonyeni.