The ANC plans to initiate disciplinary action against the organisers responsible for the incitement of violence and defiance of Covid-19 regulations as reported in Nkandla at the weekend. This was revealed by the ruling party’s deputy secretary general, Jessie Duarte, on Tuesday when she briefed the media on the outcomes of special national executive committee (NEC) meeting. The ANC’s top structure met on Monday to consider the political developments in Nkandla arising from last week’s sentencing of former President Jacob Zuma for contempt of court. “The NEC stated clearly that the current situation in KwaZulu Natal does not represent a popular uprising, but has been engineered from within,” she said. Duarte said in addition to the deliberate defiance of the Covid-19 restrictions the NEC noted the failed attempts at organising shutdowns, lawlessness and mass protests against the Constitutional Court ruling. She said there were also calls for violence and even civil war, parading of armed groups, flagrant display weapons and firing of guns, as well as some activities led by individuals operating under the banner of the Umkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA). Duarte said the NEC also noted “populist attempts by some to use retrogressive and opportunistic ethnic mobilisation for their own opportunistic objectives”. She said the NEC resolved to instruct the secretary general’s office and provincial secretary to investigate and initiate disciplinary action against those responsible for incitement of violence, defiance of lockdown regulations, the burning of ANC regalia and other acts of ill-discipline, which violates the ANC’s constitution and code of conduct also urgently. “The NEC hereby reaffirms that all our democratic institutions, including the judiciary and law enforcement agencies, shall always be defended from political attacks so that they do their work without fear, favour or prejudice. “That any attempt to respond to legal and judicial matters through threats and acts of violence, form any quarter, is abhorrent, and should not and will not be tolerated,” said Duarte.