The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health has registered nearly 200 000 elderly citizens for phase two of the Covid-19 vaccination. The department had hoped to register 955 048 elderly people before the beginning of the next phase of Covid-19 vaccinations on Monday. The national department of health this week also announced that people aged from 60 years can register using WhatsApp and on free SMS lines. Department of Health spokesperson Ntokozo Maphisa on Tuesday said plans were in place to increase the number of registered elderly people. Maphisa said all health facilities would be instructed to establish a help desk to assist people to register on the portal. Municipalities in KwaZulu-Natal will also be expected to assist people who find difficulty registering on the Electronic Vaccination Data System (EVDS) “We will also be offering registration support through community health workers, mobile clinics, and ward based primary healthcare outreach teams. These teams are also going to be at Sassa points to assist the elderly with registration. ALSO READ | WhatsApp or text to register for Covid-19 vaccine scheme “We will also use Central Chronic Medicines Dispensing and Distribution (CCMDD) points, and Operation Sukuma Sakhe structures to support the registration process while staff at some old age homes will be trained to help the elderly register,” said Maphisa. Maphisa added that other government departments would also be encouraged to support the EVDS registration process. Pietermaritzburg & District Council chief executive officer Trevor Clowes this week said they had trained staff at various homes for the aged to register people. Pietermaritzburg Pensioners Forum representative Doreen Taylor said the vaccination roll-out had been met with scepticism by most of their members. She said many were reluctant to register and believed the vaccine could kill them. “There are people who believe the vaccine is being used to decrease the number of pensioners so they have said that they will not register. I hope they will see when we get vaccinated that nothing will happen,” said Taylor.