The Durban Specialised Commercial Crimes Court sentenced two policemen, Sergeants Musawenkosi Mbusi Mabaso (46) and Thulani Patrick Dlangalala (46) to 10 years imprisonment each. This is after they were found guilty of corruption. NPA spokesperson in KwaZulu-Natal Natasha Kara said Mabaso and Dlangalala, who were stationed at the Berea Police Station were requested by their supervisor to assist in collecting a suspect who was arrested on arrival at King Shaka International Airport. “After collecting the suspect from the airport and on their way to the police station, they demanded R7 000 from him so that he could be released and attend court the following day on own his accord. “Since the suspect did not have the money on him, they made him phone his father who they met later and demanded the gratification of R7 000. The suspect's father phoned his wife and they gathered R4 500,” said Kara. She said the R4 500 was handed over to the policemen and the suspect was released on condition that they pay the remaining R3 000 later that day. The suspect’s father then alerted the Hawks and a trap was set up. The remaining R3 000 was given to Mabaso and Dlangalala. Upon arrest, the R3 000 ‘trap’ money and the initial R4 500 was found in their possession. The Senior State Advocate, Bongiwe Ncwane led the evidence of the police officials who conducted the trap operation as well as the suspect’s father. The Director of Public Prosecutions, Advocate Elaine Zungu said, “The conviction and sentence is welcomed. The two accused are police officials, found guilty of corruption. There is an outcry that corruption within law enforcement and public sector in general be dealt with harshly. “The finalisation of this matter is indicative of how the NPA and the law enforcement agencies are tackling corruption committed by government officials. The members of society who assisted with alerting the police of the crime being committed are applauded. The NPA will continue to deal with such cases rigorously.”