A professor from the Department of Physiological Sciences at Stellenbosch University (SU) is documenting symptoms of South Africans suffering from “Long Covid” in an online registry. In a statement, professor Resia Pretorius invited people to enter their symptoms and comorbidities on the online Long Covid registry. For those living in the Western Cape she is also requesting blood samples. “The main objective of the online registry is to establish the extent of the problem in SA. Other objectives include studying the long-term side-effects of Long Covid and accompanying comorbidities; as well as its effect on blood clotting and circulating inflammatory molecules. “Long Covid presents as a collection of lingering symptoms, lasting 90 days or even more, after patients have recovered from acute Covid-19 infection. “Lingering symptoms may persist in an estimated 25%–35% of cases, regardless of infection severity and even after the individual no longer tests positive for the virus. “Some of the Long Covid symptoms include fatigue, difficulty breathing, shortness of breath during daily tasks, joint pain and chest pain,” he said. Pretorius, in collaboration with Innovus, SU’s Technology Transfer Office, has recently patented a method for the early identification of Long Covid. This method enables them to identify clotlets in blood samples that are resistant to the enzymatic breakdown of fibrin. READ | Beware the effects of Long-Covid, warns KwaZulu-Natal professor As a specialist in the science of blood, blood clotting and inflammatory diseases, she also hopes to identify novel molecules in the blood that might cause fibrinolytic-resistant clotlets in blood. The presence of such molecules might eventually also be used for the early identification of Long Covid and even in the development of successful treatment of individuals with lingering Long Covid symptoms People who want to support the research effort, can complete the online Long Covid registry at https://airtable.com/shrtucasatrINAL7K. Those who do so will be asked if they are prepared to donate a blood sample but this option is only for people living in the greater Cape Town and Cape Winelands area, said Pretorius. There are plans to extend blood collection to the rest of South Africa as soon as there is funding for this. Participation in the research is voluntary and all information is encrypted and captured anonymously.