Two members of the Bergville Taxi association were gunned down in the Anglican church yard, along South Street, in Bergville on Wednesday afternoon, May 5. The Anglican church is just a few meters from the Bergville Police station and bystanders told the Ladysmith Herald, that it sounded like fireworks going off. A third person was injured in the shooting and was rushed to the local hospital for further medical attention. “It was loud, repeated popping noises and I told my family to stay indoors,” said one of the bystanders. Bergville Police immediately closed off South Street, to the public as heavy rifle cartridges were scattered along the road surface. A forensic team immediately started processing the scene. A member of the Bergville Taxi Association who spoke to Ladysmith Herald at the scene of the crime, was still in a state of shock. He told told Ladysmith Herald, that he and other members hid in the toilet facility of the church as sporadic gunfire rang outside. “We thought we were going to die and started praying,” said the taxi association member, who had said that they were busy with their monthly meetings at the church. The member asked not to be identified. “We were about nine and after the meeting, we decided to have something to eat and catch up with small chat, before leaving. Two members had already said their good-byes and were walking out of the church building, when they were shot and killed.” The member said that it felt like a life-time had passed, before the firing stopped and after waiting a while had gone to look. “We had found them dead.” “It was a terribly horrific ordeal and I can’t understand the senseless killing.” The gunmen was seen speeding off in a white vehicle. It is alleged that the killing could be taxi-related, but it cannot yet be confirmed. The dead have not yet been officially identified. Two cases of murder and one attempted murder are being investigated by the Bergville Police. No arrests have been made at this stage. Charges of murder and attempted murder are being investigated by Bergville SAPS.