Mohammed Vahed Ebrahim (46), a Durban butcher who was charged with kidnapping and killing 10-year-old Miguel Louw in 2018, was on Wednesday sentenced to 25 years imprisonment for murder. He also received a jail sentence of eight years for kidnapping and eighteen months for theft. The sentences will run concurrently. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson, Brigadier Jay Naicker, said in July 2018, Louw went missing after leaving his school in Sydenham, Durban. A case of kidnapping was opened for investigation at Sydenham SAPS and the docket was transferred to the Provincial Organised Crime Unit for further investigation. Following his disappearance, Naicker said police launched an extensive search for the missing child. Miguel’s disappearance touched the hearts of many in KwaZulu-Natal, who were concerned for his safety. Naicker said the investigating officer and other role players, who assisted in the search for the missing boy, conducted a thorough investigation. In September 2018, the decomposed remains of a child were found in the bushes close to Ebrahim's residence on Longbury Drive in Phoenix. A case of murder was registered at the Phoenix police station. An in-depth investigation was finalised and he was arrested and tried in court. “During the course of the investigation, it was established that the accused stole the identity document of the deceased’s mother as well as Miguel’s birth certificate. “It emerged that the documents were used to lure the child when he was kidnapped. An additional charge of theft was also added to the charge sheet. His bail application was denied in court and he was held behind bars throughout the trial. The matter was moved to the Durban High Court for trial in 2019,” said Naicker. On December 7 last year, the Durban High Court found him guilty on charges of premeditated murder, kidnapping and theft. The KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi said he hopes this sentence will give comfort to the family and everyone that demanded for justice to be served. Mkhwanazi also commended detectives from the Provincial Organised Crime Unit for the sterling investigation. “We are glad that this heinous crime was solved, and that the perpetrator will remain behind bars for a long time. We remain committed to bring justice to all victims of crime in this province,” said Mkhwanazi.