Endangered devil rays are making regular use of a special cleaning station on the Aliwal Shoal on the KZN South Coast. One of two marine protected areas (MPA), Aliwal Shoal is a world-renowned dive site attracting adventurers looking to swim with sharks, including black tips and ragged tooth sharks. Now, thanks to the work of local diver and PhD student, Michelle Carpenter, they can also watch devil rays at a cleaning station. “At the time [2020], I didn’t realise how many rays lived in and frequented Aliwal Shoal,” she said. “But I’ve been working on my project for over a year now, which means visiting the site almost daily for field work, and have been overwhelmed by the incredible ray diversity as well as the numbers being encountered. “In fact, Aliwal Shoal has even more diversity in terms of rays than it does sharks.” While rays do not always draw as much attention as sharks, both belong to the cartilaginous group of marine fishes called elasmobranchs. Carpenter said the Aliwal Shoal site is fortunate to be home to one of the world’s first discovered devil ray cleaning stations, following a similar discovery at the Bazaruto Archipelago. Cleaning stations are used by rays, turtles, sharks and fish to have parasites removed or wounds cleaned by cleaner fish. These sites also function as resting areas and mating grounds for hundreds of marine life species. Carpenter said finding devil rays in such large numbers was incredibly important considering their “highly endangered” status. “Some places, such as Tofo in Mozambique, have experienced a decline in sightings of these rays by more than 90% the past few years,” she added. “This makes the discovery at Aliwal Shoal that much more profound. “But it’s not only the numbers of devil rays, it’s also the diversity of ray species that is so astounding.” Carpenter has also seen plenty of spotted eagle rays, honeycomb whip rays, reticulate whip rays, leopard whip rays, blue stingrays, bluespotted stingrays, Jenkins stingray, round ribbontail rays, and even the critically endangered whitespotted wedgefish. Rarer visitors include giant manta rays, reef manta rays, longhorn devil rays, bull rays and bowmouth guitarfish. Carpenter uses both scuba diving equipment and freediving to gather the information and to get close to the marine life. She says scuba diving has been the most useful tool in achieving research tasks, such as deploying remote cameras to collect footage of cleaning rays, and performing transects of the reef communities including coral and fish, she much prefers freediving for close ray interactions. “Sharks and rays have two additional senses that we do not possess,” Carpenter said. “These are the lateral line which detect water displacement, and ampullae of Lorenzini which detect electric pulses.