KwaZulu-Natal Premier, Sihle Zikalala, on Thursday travelled to Nongoma to meet the Zulu nation’s King Misuzulu kaZwelithini, amid rumours that government was planning to withdraw the new monarch's security deployment. IFP founder, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, who is also the traditional prime minister of the Zulu nation, on Sunday caused panic when he said he had been told that the police were withdrawing the VIP protection officers assigned to guard the latter. Zikalala, who met King Misuzulu kaZwelithini at the kwaKhangelamankengane Palace in Nongoma, said it was important for him to brief the new later, particularly given that the royal house fell under the premier’s office. He said the office is expected to provide support to the monarch and the royal house. “But more than that we were here to ensure that as there were reports about the withdrawal of security, we wanted to confirm for yourself that there is no such a thing. “There was no point where the security was withdrawn and we will continue to support the royal house,” he said. During a media briefing in Durban on Tuesday, Buthelezi insisted that as the Zulu nation traditional prime minister, he had a responsibility to raise concerns related to the king’s security “The information I received on the imminent withdrawal of SAPS VIP protectors came from an advocate of the high court who has been staying at KwaKhangelamankengane Royal Palace... “The advocate was conveying information received directly from the brigadier in charge of security at the palace. There is no reason for the brigadier in charge to have misinformed us, and indeed, the provincial commissioner has not denied issuing this instruction,” he said King Misuzulu kaZwelithini was appointed amid a raging succession dispute within the royal family, with some members of the family claiming that processes were not followed when appointing him as the successor to the late King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu, who passed away in March. Prince Buthelezi also revealed that the royal family members who had been questioning the appointment of King Misuzulu kaZwelithini had since pledged their loyalty to the new King. There has been speculation that King Misuzulu kaZwelithini, who is currently single, would first have to get married before being officially installed. However Prince Buthelezi disputed that, saying there has never been a requirement in the Zulu culture that one has to be before ascending the throne.