Former president Jacob Zuma’s corruption trial is expected to start on Wednesday in the Pietermaritzburg high court. A stage has been set up across the court, in the parking lot, for Zuma to address his supporters. Zuma is charged, along with French arms company Thales, on one count of racketeering, 12 of fraud, four of corruption and one of money laundering. The charges relate to 783 payments that Zuma allegedly received as a bribe to protect French arms company Thint — the local subsidiary of French arms company Thales — from an investigation into the controversial multi-billion rand arms deal. The alleged bribe was facilitated by Zuma’s former financial adviser‚ Schabir Shaik. Zuma is expected to plead not guilty to all of the charges. In addition, his legal team is bringing a “special plea”, challenging the right of prosecutor Billy Downer to try him. This is expected to be argued on Wednesday. In the special plea, the former president is claiming that “foreign intelligence agencies” may have interfered in his corruption prosecution. Traffic in the vicinity of the high court is expected to be affected on Wednesday. Road closures will take place from 8 am, which would prevent motorists access to the front of the high court. Church and Boshoff Streets will be access controlled and there will be no parking inside Freedom Square. ALSO READ | Zuma fans outside Pietermaritzburg court ‘were not ANC’ Meanwhile, two months after the Constitutional Court heard arguments on why it should jail Zuma for contempt, it’ll hear the former president’s attempt to appeal the estimated R10 million costs order issued against him for his challenges to the State Capture Inquiry’s constitutionality. The Constitutional Court had set down May 27 as the date for Zuma’s application to appeal the punitive costs order granted against him by the Gauteng High Court in Pretoria, after he tried and failed to interdict the release of, and later review, then public protector Thuli Madonsela’s State of Capture report. Despite Zuma’s lawyers missing court deadlines to file both the appeal record linked to the case and heads of argument — and uncertainty over whether he actually intends to proceed with the appeal — the Constitutional Court has decided to go ahead with the case anyway. It will hear the appeal bid while it has yet to decide on whether Zuma’s repeated refusal to appear before the commission, despite its orders that he do so, should be punished with jail time. Zuma is already facing the prospect of having to pay back R25 million in state funding unlawfully spent on his corruption trial defence costs, after the Supreme Court of Appeal ruled that he was not lawfully entitled to have the state pay his legal fees. Zuma is also seeking to appeal that ruling in the Constitutional Court.