Msunduzi Municipality said road closures in the Pietermaritzburg CBD will commence at about 08.30 am to minimise traffic disruptions during former president Jacob Zuma's court appearance on Monday morning. Thobeka Mafumbatha, Msunduzi's spokesperson, said information received suggests that the City may have a similar situation it had in 2007 where there were thousands of people gathering outside the High Court. The City said parking will be cordoned off outside Bessy Head Library in Old Market Street to accommodate SAPS response vehicles. Church Street from Otto Street to outside AS Chetty Building, parking will be prohibited. Freedom Square parking will be out of bounds from about 6 am until the High Court Trial is over as the supported of former president are expected to gather. Church Street between Boshoff Street and Old Market Street will be closed-off . Church Street and Boshoff Street will operate as normal until 8.30 am. However, the City said it will have a soft closure at be Church and Boshoff streets where only minibus taxis and motorists going for services at AS Chetty and other businesses in the area above Boshoff Street would be allowed to go through at this closure point. No vehicular traffic will be allowed to proceed beyond the New Taxi Rank Exit right outside AS Chetty Building. There will be a hard closure in Church Street outside the judge's entrance where the municipality will put speed fences. Church Street and Old Market Street will also have a hard closure with speed fences. Traffic moving along Old Market Street will be compelled to turn left into Church Street and proceed up towards the City Hall or turn right into Otto Street towards Pietermaritz Street. Vehicles moving from the City Hall will be able to drive down and turn left into Otto Str or turn right into Old Market Street. “Quite important to note that if the supporters arrive over night or very early in the morning, decision to close roads off to protect innocent members of public may be considered,” said Mafumbatha. Media Parking: O/B vans and trucks will be accommodated from the first tree below the High Court pedestrian entrance up to the Judge's entrance. All other media vehicles will park off in Church Street from the corner of AS Chetty Building to just before the entrance to AS Chetty Building. Meyers taxis parking area from outside the New Taxi Rank will not be accessible as this area will also be reserved for the media vehicles.