KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Social Development, Nonhlanhla Khoza was shocked and concerned when she discovered “unforgivable things” with residents being fed poor quality food at the Durban and Coastal Mental Health Society on Wednesday. The lapse in operations at the facility was confirmed during an unannounced visit by Khoza and head of the Department of Social Development, Nelisiwe Vilakazi. Their inspection follows a public outcry that people residing in the facility were not given food. The departments of Health and Social Development have a service level agreement with the society. After meeting with the board of directors and management of the organisation yesterday, Khoza said she was concerned about the society’s non-compliance with the agreement. “It is shocking to see how the board has run the affairs in that institution. The appointment of service providers who have no contracts is one of the concerns. “The institution is currently unable to perform its responsibility very well. It is clear that there has been mismanagement and misappropriation of funds in the institution,” she said. Khoza said Social Development is funding the institution with a lot of money and the service it renders should reflect the amount of money allocated to the institution. “This institution is expected to render services to the most vulnerable groups in our society. Our service users can never be treated like this. We were very disappointed by the food given to the end users in the facility. “The food given to them is not healthy. No person can eat sandwiches for breakfast and lunch. We give funding to this organisation to take care of our people. We want to ensure that their dignity is restored,” she said. ALSO READ |  The stark reality of SA’s mental health crisis. Khoza said the board of directors is governed by the Non-profit Organisation’s Act and should be compliant with it and all other laws of the country. “We need to see this board having a turnaround strategy. There are unforgivable things that are taking place in this institution. We are not going to leave this matter unattended to because the end users are going to suffer,” she said. Khoza said the financial problems in the institution need urgent attention. “The inefficiencies of a bloated management structure have also brought the institution to its knees. The department will be working with the board to fix the problems facing this institution. We will get to the bottom of this and ensure whoever is responsible for such maladministration and corruption embezzled faces the law,” she said. She said the Department of Social Development would continue providing funding to the institution to ensure that beneficiaries are not affected. However, the MEC announced that she has appointed a team to help deal with problems at the institution.