There was triple the excitement in the Chetty family with the graduation of 22-year-old twins, Odell and Odette, and elder sister, Yvette (29), from the University of KwaZulu-Natal. Born just three minutes apart, the twins may have similar thoughts, laughter and smiles, but when it comes to their career choices they are worlds apart. Odell, whose passion is health sciences, graduated with a Bachelor of Occupational Therapy, while Odette is set to join the corporate world with a Bachelor of Commerce Accounting (Hon) degree. The twins also look up to Yvette, who has graduated with a PhD in Physiology. Since their mother, Charmaine, died in 2013, Yvette has taken on a motherly role, supporting her sisters through high school and university. “I’m sure my mum would be proud of all of us. I’m happy we supported each other, achieved our goals and can now give back to our dad, Krishnan,” said Odette, who is completing her articles at KPMG and plans to become a chartered accountant. ALSO READ | Hard work pays off for UKZN graduate with a rare medical condition Odell, who is doing a year of community service at Addington Hospital in Durban, says she always wanted to work in a profession where she could help people. She is very proud of her achievement as she found the course challenging, especially last year when the Covid-19 pandemic hit. “Throughout lockdown it was not possible for us to receive placement for fieldwork experience as usual and so we did telehealth as an alternative,” Odell said. Yvette said growing up in Chatsworth, where drug abuse is rife, had inspired her to focus her PhD on the effects of the illicit drug cocktail known as ‘Sugars’, on the brain and behaviour of animals. Her study revealed interesting findings with regard to memory following drug administration, as well as the effects of these drugs on the blood factors and the loss of pleasure many people with depression experience. In some cases, withdrawal of the drug led to partial reversal of these effects. “My goal was to finish my PhD before I turned 30, and I am ecstatic that I did so at 28. “My future aspirations are to become a professor and establish a research niche,” Yvette said. She is currently registered for a postgraduate diploma in higher education with the Independent Institute of Education and lecturing at the University of Limpopo.