The first batch of Pfizer vaccines, 325 260 doses, was scheduled to land at OR Tambo International Airport on Sunday night, according to a statement released by Health Minister, Dr Zweli Mkhize, on Sunday afternoon. He said the National Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure had considered all the security arrangements — from when the vaccines landed at the airport, to when they were transported to the vaccination sites. “They have engaged all security agencies to ensure all necessary security procedures are in place for safe delivery of the vaccines and made the necessary arrangements with the police. “Upon arrival the entire batch will be transported initially to a central warehouse. Samples will be sent to the National Control Laboratory for quality assurance and, after release, will be distributed to the provinces,” he said. Following this initial delivery of Pfizer, Mkhize said they were expecting approximately the same number of doses, 325 260, to arrive on a weekly basis to a total of over 1,3 million doses by the end of May. “Thereafter the vaccine supply will increase to an average of 636 480 doses weekly from May 31 which will see us accumulating close to 4,5 million doses by the end of June.” With regards to Johnson and Johnson, Mkhize said they had received communication that the doses awaiting dispatch in Gqeberha were expected to be released around the middle of May. This is due to a protracted safety verification process with international regulatory agencies. “This is a precautionary measure following the adverse findings during inspection of Emergent BioSolutions Bayview facility in the United States of America, one of the manufacturing partners of Johnson and Johnson, which prompted the authorities to extend their assessments of all Johnson and Johnson stock worldwide. These assessments are still underway,” he said. Mkhize said they were confident that the final outcome would be positive and that, provided there would be no further disruptions. ALSO READ | Police warns the public against purchasing fake vaccines. “Johnson and Johnson will be in a position to release the stock from the Aspen plant in Gqeberha by the middle of May. The stock is currently finished and ready for dispatch.” In the meantime, he said they would continue to vaccinate healthcare workers with the remaining early access doses of Johnson and Johnson — through the Sisonke Protocol and they would proceed to vaccinate with Pfizer. “We therefore continue to call on all healthcare workers, including traditional healers, and all citizens 60 years and above to register on the EVDS (Electronic Vaccination Data System) as we continue to rollout vaccines,” said Mkhize.