KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala has applauded President Cyril Ramaphosa’s decision to honour the late regent to the Zulu-nation, Queen Shiyiwe Mantfombi Dlamini Zulu, by designating her funeral as a special provincial official funeral. Queen Zulu was appointed as the interim leader of the Zulu Kingdom, under the title of Queen Regent, on March 21 this year, following the passing of King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuZulu on March 12. The Queen passed away in a Johannesburg hospital on Thursday, April 29 after an illness. “We applaud, His Excellency, President Cyril Ramaphosa, for bestowing Her Majesty with an Official Funeral which is a befitting recognition of the role played by Her Majesty the Queen in community upliftment and promoting good moral values in society” said Zikalala. He said Dlamini Zulu played a major role in the community. "She ran a programme for orphaned children, assisted the needy children with school uniforms and worked a lot on women empowerment programs.  In support of His Majesty the King, Her Majesty played a critical role in advising and supporting the late King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuZulu, in conflict resolution and promoting peace” added Zikalala. He has appointed a team of four MECs to work with the Zulu royal family to facilitate a fitting farewell for the Queen. The MEC’s Include MEC for Transport and Community Safety Peggy Nkonyeni, MEC for Agriculture and Rural Development Bongi Sithole-Moloi, MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Sipho Hlomuka as well as the MEC for Arts, Culture, Sports and Recreation, Hlengiwe Mavimbela. Zikalala said the MECs has met with the royal family and were told that the mortal remains of the queen will arrive in KwaNongoma on Wednesday, May 5. The funeral and memorial services will take place on Friday, May 7. Zulu nation Prime Minister, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi said: "In line with her (Dlamini Zulu) wishes, as was done for His Majesty the King (Goodwill Zwelithini), Her Majesty will be interred at the crack of dawn in a private burial." The South African Police Service will provide ceremonial elements, while the national flag will be half-masted throughout the province of KwaZulu-Natal on the day of the funeral. Funeral proceedings will comply with all the Covid-19 lockdown regulations, said Zikalala.  