Mamelodi Sundowns clinched a fourth DStv Premiership title in a row with an emphatic 3-1 win over 10-man SuperSport United in their Pretoria derby at Loftus Versfeld Wednesday night. No club in the country have been able to win four championships in a row before this. Goals from Lebohang Maboe, Aubrey Modiba and Themba Zwane handed Sundowns an 11th league title in the Premier Soccer League era with three games remaining in their 2020/21 season, and further underlined their dominance in the domestic game. Victory moved Sundowns 10 points clear atop the league standings, while SuperSport remained in sixth spot. Teboho Mokoena scored the losers’ solitary goal on the night. The early exchanges set the tone for what was to come with chances at either end of the pitch, and Gaston Sirino was only denied the opener by the woodwork in the opening minute of the clash. The Uruguayan rounded goalkeeper Ronwen Williams in the SuperSport goal but failed to find the target from an acute angle. As if their task wasn’t hard enough, SuperSport suffered a major blow in the seventh minute as Guily Manziba received a straight red card for a reckless challenge on Sphelele Mkhulise, which resulted in the latter having to leave the field moments later. Matsatsantsa were almost gifted the opener in the 29th minute after a loose pass by goalkeeper Denis Onyango was pounced upon by Bradley Grobler, but defender Brain Onyango came to the rescue. Three minutes later, the floodgates opened. ALSO READ | ’Downs focus on title, Leopards face tumble Modiba burst onto an inch-perfect through-ball by Sirino before finding Maboe, who slid home the game’s opener from close range. Sundowns doubled their lead in the 40th minute when Modiba’s cross beat everyone — including Kermit Erasmus — to bounce into back of net. Zwane netted Sundowns’ third on the day and his 10th of the league season on the cusp of half time. Sundowns threatened to add to their tally after the break and were handed a golden opportunity to do so in the 54th minute following a handball by Keenan Phillips inside the area. Zwane stepped up to the spot, but Williams denied him to further emphasise his penalty-stopping credentials. SuperSport, to their credit, never let their heads drop and were rewarded in the 88th minute as Mokoena thumped home a trademark rocket from range. ALSO READ | Major milestone for Chiefs coach Hunt in an otherwise trying season The game ended on somewhat of a sour note, though, as Denis Onyango was forced from the field with a hand injury, resulting in Brian Onyango having to finish the game in goal after Sundowns had made all their substitutions. Meanwhile, Black Leopards defeated Kaizer Chiefs 2-1 at the Thohoyandou Stadium to keep alive their hopes of avoiding direct relegation. Lidoda Duvha, who secured the win thanks to a brace from Tiklas Thutlwa, remain bottom of the log, but are now just three points behind Chippa United with two rounds of the 2020-21 season left to play. Chiefs could still mathematically be drawn into the relegation play-off mix, as they are only five points clear of Chippa, but Wednesday’s result is more realistically a major blow to their top-eight hopes.