When the Sharks welcome the Stormers for their Rainbow Cup SA clash in Durban on Saturday, their mission will not just be about returning to winning ways but to also prove a point to their critics. With a historic final dangled for all Rainbow Cup participants, the Sharks and the Capetonians will be expected to put up a huge fight at Kings Park Stadium at 1 pm. The hosts, however, head to the clash after what has been a tough week for them, especially for their forward pack, as they have been heavily criticised for the embarrassing 43-9 defeat to the Bulls last weekend. Sharks mentor Sean Everitt, who made four changes to his team, said his forwards will be out to prove to everyone that they are not bad rugby players, but just had an off day against the Bulls. “Definitely this game can be personal, and I think these guys have taken a lot of criticism over last week’s performance,” said Everitt. ALSO READ | Boks bite big chunk out of Sharks “It’s almost as if everyone is judging the Sharks on one game, people forget quickly that we beat the same Stormers team at their Newlands home venue. “Nothing has changed. We are expecting the same, we had an off day last week and we are looking forward to this battle.” The Sharks can’t afford another off day as Stormers coach John Dobson has picked a very strong forward pack with stars such as Steven Kitshoff, Frans Malherbe, Pieter-Steph du Toit, Marvin Orie and Bongi Mbonambi. However, Everitt sounded confident that his men will be able to deal with whatever the visitors throw at them. “I would expect that in a derby. The pack that they’ve selected for this week, apart from Scara Ntubeni and Nama Xaba, it’s very much the same that we faced in Cape Town,” said the coach. “The back are almost identical, obviously last week they had to rest some of their players. Pieter-Steph du Toit came back and played two games in a row, so they probably felt that he needed a rest. They will always come to Durban after that first loss to try and avenge and obviously get their campaign on track for a final.” The Durban-based franchise will also be desperate to protect their unbeaten run at their home ground. ALSO READ | All Boks want to be on once-a-generation team against British & Irish Lions “We have been unbeaten at Kings Park for a year-and-a-half now, we are going to protect our fortress and the guys will put it together on the weekend,” said Everitt. The changes for this week see talented lock JJ van der Mescht in the starting line-up as Ruben van Heerden moves to the bench. Eightman Sikhumbuzo Notshe was not considered for selection due to injury and has been replaced by Henco Venter, who moves from the side of the scrum to No. 8 while Thembelani Bholi comes at No. 7. In the final change, Marius Louw returns in midfield in place of Jeremy Ward in the No. 12 jersey.  