Fresh from being nominated for a South African Film and Television Award (Safta) for best soap structured reality show, Kelly Khumalo is back on Showmax for a second season of her hit series, Life With Kelly Khumalo. “Fans have been asking for season two of Life With Kelly Khumalo since it first aired last August, so we’re delighted to be able to deliver it nine months later,” says Candice Fangueiro, Showmax’s head of content. “Life With Kelly Khumalo became the fastest Showmax Original to top one million views, so renewing the series was an easy decision to make.” Since season one, the South African Music Award (Sama) winner has launched her eighth studio album, The Voice of Africa, featuring the hit single Empini, which has already racked up nearly seven million views on YouTube alone. As Somizi said at her private listening session for the album, “In my books, Kelly is the best female vocalist we’ve ever had in our time.” Based on the new trailer, the two biggest talking points this season will be Khumalo starting to date again, and the return of her mother, Ntombi Khumalo. Since her last public break-up, the star has shied away from matters of the heart and channelled all her energy into being a mother, musician and businesswoman. But she admits in the trailer: “I’m not in a relationship; I am playing with someone…” The sudden disappearance of Khumalo’s mom in season one left her heart-broken and confused. She had wanted to know more about her biological father, prompting Ntombi to leave for KwaZulu-Natal. They drifted even further apart over Khumalo's ongoing feud with her younger sister, Zandile. In the season two trailer, Ntombi's back and her daughter is hoping they can be reconciled. “She is the only family member I have left; I feel like I owe it to myself and my children to try and make this work,” Khumalo adds. "With the new season, Kelly is going through a healing process from all she encountered in season one,” says executive producer Legend Manqele, founder of The BarLeader, the production company that is also behind Being Bonang, Somizi & Mohale: The Union, and Kwa Mam’Mkhize. “Kelly is trying to take in everything at her own pace. But in the same breath, the answers she was seeking have now opened up more questions that need answering, which not only affect her but also her kids in the long run.” Khumalo says she found it empowering to open her life up to her fans via reality TV. “My reality show is my way of owning my reality and embracing who I am,” she adds. “What I’ve learnt is that it gives me power to own my story. No one can ever use my story against me because I have owned it. This is me, who I am, whether good or bad.” Life With Kelly Khumalo starts screening on Thursday, May 13, with new episodes every Tuesday. The full second season will be available to binge from August 5.