A Port Shepstone woman (30) was allegedly robbed by her Facebook friend, who she met for the third time in Verulam on Monday morning. According to Reaction Unit South Africa’s (RUSA) spokesperson, Prem Balram, the woman flagged down a passing Rusa vehicle to seek assistance. The man, who she claims is her boyfriend, had met the women over Facebook just over a year ago, The two met previously in Port Shepstone on two occasions and kept in touch via video calls, before meeting in Verulam the third time at a popular fast-food outlet. Balram said the woman travelled to Verulam and met the man inside the restaurant. “The man had suggested that they meet to discuss a premises he had found so they both could move in together," said Balram. "The discussion would also include a transfer from her current workplace to a medical facility closer to the North Coast. "During the conversation the man insisted that the woman pay for their order at McDonalds and promised that he would pay the bill on the next date. "A few minutes into their meeting the man took her mobile phone a Samsung J7, a Calvin Klein watch and her wallet with her bank cards and ID before fleeing." Balram said the watch was given to the victim by her mother as a gift for her birthday on Tuesday, June 1. The woman showed RUSA officers several pictures of the man and provided a detail description of the vehicle that had dropped him off. Reaction officers conducted a search of the man and had identified his residence and family, however, after the woman decline to open a criminal case, the search was called off. In a separate incident, Tongaat police are urging residents to be cautious when buying goods online, as a woman (40) was defrauded of R1 250, after attempting to purchase frozen cooked meals from a Facebook advert. The woman placed an order via a number from the advert and made a transfer into the bank account. The order was not delivered, and she revisited the page, only to find out that it was a scam. She contacted the number provided and was blocked.