The Springboks brains trust are expecting the British and Irish Lions to embrace a high tempo playing style in the forthcoming three-match series, but director of rugby Rassie Erasmus and coach Jacques Nienaber are confident the local team will be ready to front whatever is thrown at them. Erasmus told a Zoom press conference on Friday that the fact that there are five Scotland backline players in the Lions touring squad was an indication of what the Lions will be aiming to do on the firm South African surfaces. Nienaber gives the impression he might have been concerned about that during last year’s Currie Cup, when the ball-in-play time and playing intensity was down on what was being evidenced in the English Premiership, the French Top 14 and the PRO14, but now he reckons his players will be up for the challenge. “It was nice to see in the preparation series matches earlier in the season that there was a dramatic shift from what we were seeing in last year’s Currie Cup and that has been carried over into the Rainbow Cup SA matches,” said Nienaber. ALSO READ | Covid-19 hurdles bring revised fixtures, venues for British & Irish Lions tour “We identified a few problem areas last season and the need to change was embraced by everyone, meaning franchise coaches and even the refereeing department, who worked out ways to make ball-in-play time more, or ball-out-of-play time less, and the innovations we tried worked out wonderfully. It started in the preparation series and has been continued. “The comparisons between our ball-in-play time, and the overall tempo and intensity, with that of the Premiership and the other overseas competitions wasn’t good last season. But there has almost been a kind of ‘stronger together vibe’, with everyone working together for the common good. “We as a rugby fraternity identified what needed to be done and everyone worked towards that and we are seeing the fruits of it. I am very happy with where we are at the moment.” The Covid pandemic has condemned Nienaber to being in the invidious position of being the national coach for almost a year-and-a-half without his team playing any games. Now that the time for him to make his head coaching debut is nearing — starting with the Friday night series of two matches against Georgia in early July — he says he has butterflies in his stomach. At the same time though he seems confident. ALSO READ | Boks bite big chunk out of Sharks “I can’t wait to get going,” he said. Erasmus said he was expecting something very different from the Lions to the more conservative rugby that often prevailed for Lions head coach Warren Gatland when he was in charge of Wales against South Africa. “There was more or less equal representation between the four nations in their squad selections, so I don’t think we are going to see one nation’s style being too influential, but what I did find interesting was the selection of five Scotland backline players,” said Erasmus. “The Scotland coach Gregor Townsend is the Lions’ attack coach so that and the fact there are five Scottish backline players must tell you something about what they want to do. They have mostly English and Welsh forwards with Scottish backs, so I don’t think we will see the Welsh kind of grinding out game, but rather a mix of styles. “They have chosen really quick forwards. There are some really mobile guys among their forwards and if Courtney Lawes is playing as a lock and not a loose-forward, that will tell us they intend to take us on with a really mobile pack.” ALSO READ | All Boks want to be on once-a-generation team against British & Irish Lions A squad of 45 will be chosen on Saturday, June 5, for the Lions series and the two warm-up matches against Georgia, although Erasmus explained that the group will effectively be a mix of Bok and South African A players. South Africa A, meaning the national second-string team, is due to play against the Lions in a tour game before the series starts. “We are selecting a 45-man squad as we will be going into a hard [bio] bubble in the buildup to the matches and the series,” said Erasmus. “We will have the SA A side along with the Boks that will be playing the Lions and the Bok coaches will coach both teams. “After the SA A game we may cut the squad a bit, maybe to the same size as the Lions squad. But I think we are looking okay ... “Most or the guys who played for us at the World Cup though, aside from the three players who have subsequently retired, will be in the mix, plus some new young guys who have impressed us. “I think we are looking okay. We have a good mix of young guys who have done really well in the preparation series and in the local Rainbow Cup, and some old dogs who have been doing really well overseas,” added the national director of rugby.