Motorists will no longer be able to use the Peter Brown off-ramp on the southbound carriageway of the N3. The South African National Roads Agency Limited (Sanral) closed the off-ramp into Pietermaritzburg on Friday, May 28. It will be shut until October 29 to allow contractors to reconstruct the slow lane from Sanctuary Road to Link Road. Thabiso Dladla, Sanral’s eastern region project manager, said: "There is a safety concern for vehicles that have an axle limit of 10 tons, that travel in the southbound direction due to the construction works on the far left lane of N3 south, [and] that need to exit the freeway at the Peter Brown off-ramp. "The current closure ... has reduced the freeway to two lanes before the Peter Brown off-ramp – only the middle and far right lanes are in use. “The N3 contains a high number of slow-moving heavy vehicles and the two-lane road section would therefore make the use of the Peter Brown off-ramp unsafe as the vehicles in the right-hand lane will need to slow down to cross the dedicated heavy vehicle lane.  This therefore substantially increases the chances of incidents and accidents on this section of the carriageway." The closure of the Peter Brown off-ramp will affect the suburbs of Athlone, Montrose, Chase Valley and Wembley. Light motor vehicle drivers are advised to use the following alternate routes: Motorists travelling from Howick towards Pietermaritzburg can take the Cedara off-ramp and travel on Old Howick Road to Athlone Circle. Alternatively, motorists will need to pass the Peter Brown off-ramp and take the Chatterton Road off-ramp. Motorists can then exit onto Sanctuary Road and continue onto Chase Valley Road, turning left onto McCarthy Drive. The intersection of McCarthy Drive and Town Brush Road will provide access to Montrose. To gain access to Athlone and Wembley, motorists will have to use Montgomery Drive. "Sanral apologises for the inconvenience caused to road-users and will endeavour to complete the works as quickly as possible,” said Dladla.