As we commemorate World Hunger Day on May 28, Pietermaritzburg-based Gift of the Givers has had to intervene in dire situations in some parts of South Africa where communities were reported to be eating cats, tortoises and lizards out of sheer desperation. Gift of the Givers founder, Dr Imtiaz Sooliman, said economic challenges in South Africa pre-Covid 19 were exacerbated by lockdown, accompanying job losses, reduction in salary at executive and lower levels, business shutdown, both formal and informal, and a major impact on tourism, events management, conferencing, weddings and leisure gatherings. Ironically, Sooliman said medical practices suffered a huge setback with concomitant employee shedding. He said Gift of the Givers focused its distribution in the Eastern Cape having discovered incredible hunger in Peddie in June 2020, where children were eating plants for survival. “Subsequently, we received reports of communities eating cats, tortoises and lizards out of sheer desperation. Our teams witnessed children eating out of jam tins and peanut butter bottles at dump sites to quell hunger pangs,” he said. Sooliman said they also supported one hundred feeding centres and have rolled out close to 400 000 food parcels assisting deeply rural South Africans, the middle class, echelons of the upper class, foreign nationals and neighbouring countries. He said this excludes their intervention in more distant countries having delivered 101 containers of food aid to Somalia and Yemen. “In South Africa we witnessed queues of children doubling, adults joining at a later stage and individuals, both adults and children, requesting food for family members at home. “Our dietitians observed increased malnutrition cases in communities and hospitals whilst numbers at school feeding centres increased exponentially and could not be catered for as these were not budgeted for in the government supported school feeding programme.” Sooliman said Gift of the Givers teams will be at Duncan Village in Eastern Cape on Friday, which is one of the poorest communities, in East London rolling out food parcels at 10 am. He said this is a continuation of a three-day initiative, supported by Woolworths, having commenced in Mthatha. “Gardening equipment, fertiliser and seeds will be handed out at Qaqamba Senior Secondary School in keeping with Gift of the Givers principle of supporting sustainability initiatives at schools and communities,” said Sooliman. He added that they will continue providing food parcels for farmers and farm workers, fodder for animals and initiating income generation. Vlottenburg Primary School in Cape Town will receive bulk food, nutritional packs and enriched peanut paste. “We welcome ongoing support from corporates, private sector and individuals both in cash contributions and bulk food aid,” said Sooliman.