With an Oscar and a Bafta already in the bag, My Octopus Teacher was rewarded with a South African Film and Television Award (Safta) at the weekend. The documentary, directed by Pippa Ehrlich and James Reed, which documents a year spent by filmmaker Craig Foster forging a relationship with a common octopus in a South African kelp forest, was named the best natural history and environmental programme. This year’s virtual ceremony, hosted by Dineo Langa, Mpho Popps and Graeme Richards, followed a challenging year for the local film and television industry. MultiChoice achieved the highest number of wins with 47, including best film for kykNET’s Griekwastad, which tells the search for the truth following the murder of Deon Steenkamp, his wife Christel and their teenage daughter Marthella on their farm Naauwhoek in 2012. They also won the prize for best telenovela for M-Net’s massively popular Legacy, and best structured soapie reality show for Life with Kelly Khumalo, which is about the embark on a second series on the streaming platform, Showmax. ALSO READ | Oscar glory for SA documentary, ‘My Octopus Teacher’ Netflix bagged 19 awards, from 45 nominations, on its debut at the Saftas. Among the winners were Netflix Originals’ How to Ruin Christmas: The Wedding, the film Riding with Sugar, and documentary My Octopus Teacher. In the new category, best online content, the Golden Horn award went to social media favourite Noko Mashaba. National Film & Video Foundation (NFVF) chief executive officer Makhosazana Khanyile described the Saftas as an “amazing win” for the industry. “I’d like to congratulate all the winners as well as our valued partners, especially our broadcast partners Mzansi Magic and S3,” Mashaba added. “It truly is an honour for the NFVF to be the custodians of the Saftas and to watch the industry grow and flourish. “Amidst a global pandemic, our artists persevered, entertained and challenged themselves, and this can be witnessed in the number of nominees that this year witnessed. I’m grateful for the industry that continues to walk the Saftas journey with us and true to this year’s theme, the industry is absolutely still shining.”