Before the much-hyped clash between the Sharks and Bulls in the Pro14 Rainbow Cup SA in Pretoria on Saturday, organisers added much-needed life to the tournament by confirming plans for a final between the best South African and European sides next month. After the match at Loftus Stadium, it was clear that the Bulls will likely be the South African representatives in that climax to the two-sectioned competition in Europe, judging by the way they dismantled the Sharks. Both teams had won their two previous games against the Lions and Stormers, but there appeared to be greater, match-winning depth in the Bulls outfit as they romped home 43-9, hours after the Stormers edged the Lions 39-37 in Johannesburg with a late surge. Sharks coach Sean Everitt had talked a good game before leaving for the Jacaranda City, and his men seemed to have a chance of arm-wrestling the Bulls on their own patch through the first half. But the second half amounted to a slaughter of the Durbanites as a powerful performance by the Bulls featured 31 unanswered points in that period. The men from Pretoria got a full-house of five log points for their efforts and moved three points past the Durbanites at the top of the ladder. At the halfway mark of the South African section of the competition, the Bulls lead with 13 log points, followed by theSharks (10), Stormers (7) and Lions (3). Everitt was understandably disappointed with his team’s performance, but claimed they are far from done. “I’m really disappointed in how we got dominated, but I don’t believe we can fault our own effort,” said Everitt. “It’s not the end of the world — you’re bound to lose a game or two when you play six South African derbies. We want to bounce back and win this competition.” The Bulls claimed a bonus point from their four-second half tries which underlined their dominance in South African rugby. ALSO READ | Boks bite a big chunk out of Sharks. Flyhalf Morné Steyn kicked seven out of seven kicks at goal from five penalty goals and two conversions for a personal haul of 19 points as the Sharks were made to pay for every indiscretion. Three of the Bulls’ replacements in Lizo Gqoboka (prop), Schalk Erasmus (hooker) and Chris Smith (flyhalf), scored tries as well as one for Stravino Jacobs (wing) as the home team found a gear with which the Durbanites could not live. “We slowly, slowly grounded them down … and I think altitude as well obviously, playing like that (from the Sharks) catches you in the second half,” said Bulls coach Jake White. “It was a little bit frustrating in the first half, but obviously very proud about the way that we finished off, and we got the bonus point.” Meanwhile, the Stormers’ fortunes were different at Emirates Airline Park in Egoli, where they scored 10 points late in the match — the last three via an injury-time penalty goal — to break the Lions’ hearts with their 39-37 win. Both sides scored five tries apiece and while the men from Joburg looked to be home and dry when winger Rabz Maxwane crossed for their last five-pointer to put them eight points ahead with time running out on the clock, the Capetonians simply refused to give up and ended up sneaking the win. A Tim Swiel penalty goal in injury-time handed the Stormers their narrow win and Stormers captain Steven Kitshoff lauded his team for never giving up. Next weekend sees a Jukskei Derby in Johannesburg, while the two coastal sides clash in Durban.