Former president Jacob Zuma’s “special plea” to have state advocate, Billy Downer, SC, removed as the prosecutor is now expected to be argued on July 19. Zuma’s trial officially began on Wednesday in the Pietermaritzburg High Court with him pleading not guilty to charges of corruption, racketeering, fraud and money laundering linked to the multibillion-rand arms deal. Advocates Dali Mpofu, SC, and Thabani Masuku, SC, both addressed Judge Piet Koen on Zuma’s behalf. Mpofu has represented several other high profile individuals and is representing ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule in his legal battle over his suspension from the ANC. Since the special plea is 141 pages, the entire document- which has already been widely reported about in the media- was not read in full. Mpofu told the court that Zuma wants to place as much as he can of it on the record. The judge said the purpose of the day is to disclose Zuma’s legal basis for his defence and not for everything in the plea to be ventilated. Masuku read out some paragraphs of the plea and also referred the judge to certain paragraphs and pages. One of them is where Zuma said, “I am concerned that Mr Downer’s endless pursuit of this prosecution is not aimed at finding the truth but to bolster the political narrative of a corrupt leader of the ANC and president”. Zuma alleges that Downer is politically compromised as he supported a court action by the DA; he illegally leaked information to journalist Sam Sole; and that he interacted with Leonard McCarthy of the then Scorpions, while he knew that McCarthy was in contact with spies from the CIA. Zuma in the plea alleges that “foreign intelligence agencies” may have interfered in his corruption prosecution. He also said that “Downer has lost his independence and impartiality”. The charges Zuma faces relates to 783 payments which Zuma allegedly received as a bribe to protect French arms company‚ Thint (the local subsidiary of French arms company Thales)‚ from an investigation into the controversial multi-billion rand arms deal. The alleged bribe was facilitated by Zuma’s former financial adviser‚ Schabir Shaik. Thales has also pleaded not guilty to all the charges. It denies it was even aware of the alleged benefits paid by Shaik to Zuma and therefore was not a knowing part of their alleged organised criminal enterprise.