The National Freedom Party (NFP) said the announcement by
Deputy Chief Justice Zondo that President Cyril Ramaphosa will appear before
the State Capture Commission does not amuse them because “it’s a waste of
time, energy and resources”. Canaan Mdletshe, NFP’s Secretary General, said when President
Ramaphosa goes to the Commission next week, they know that he will “just rumble
around”. “His appearance will neither assist the Commission nor the
country because all he will do, like it happened before, would be to protect
corruption and thuggery by ANC cadres,” said Mdletshe. He said during his previous appearance, Ramaphosa wasted
time and resources. “Instead of wasting resources, including beefed up security
for the President, the Commission should be concluding its work. And with
Eskom’s battling to keep the lights on, we propose that load shedding be
implemented on the days President Ramaphosa appears before the Commission to
protect the people of South Africa from cover-ups, lies and untruths from
President Ramaphosa,” said Mdletshe. Since taking office, Mdletshe said Ramaphosa has failed
dismally to fight corruption. “Under his watch, billions of rands have been wasted and
stolen by thieves masquerading as honourable members. “In the midst of a deadly coronavirus, millions have been
stolen under the disguise of procuring of PPE’s. Health Minister Zweli Mkhize
is embroiled in a serious controversy over communications tender millions, yet
President Ramaphosa is silent on the matter. This is the kind of cover-up and
cadre protection,” he said. Mdletshe said if Deputy Judge President Zondo is serious
about the credibility of the Commission, he should just focus on serious
evidence and not waste time on President Ramaphosa. “As the NFP, we would be writing to the Commission’s
Chairperson requesting the full details of the money that would be spent
specifically on the two days President Ramaphosa would appear because to us,
his appearance should not cost South Africans more,” said Mdletshe.