UKZN professor Jochen Zeller, associate professor in Linguistics in the College of Humanities, is part of an international research team that discovered that iconic vocalisations can convey a much wider range of meanings more accurately than previously supposed. Zeller is a co-author of the research paper by the team, led by experts from the University of Birmingham and the Leibniz-Centre General Linguistics (ZAS), Berlin. The “missing link” that helped our ancestors to begin communicating with each other through language may have been iconic sounds, rather than charades-like gestures, giving rise to the unique human power to coin new words describing the world around us, the study reveals. It was widely believed that, in order to get the first languages off the ground, our ancestors relied on visual signs whose form directly resembled the intended meaning. The researchers tested whether people from different linguistic backgrounds could understand novel vocalisations for 30 different meanings common across languages and which might have been relevant in early language evolution. These meanings spanned animate entities, including humans and animals (child, man, woman, tiger, snake, deer), inanimate entities (knife, fire, rock, water, meat, fruit), actions (gather, cook, hide, cut, hunt, eat, sleep), properties (dull, sharp, big, small, good, bad), quantifiers (one, many) and demonstratives (this, that). The team published their findings in Scientific Reports, highlighting that the vocalisations produced by English speakers could be understood by speakers of 28 languages from 12 language families, including speakers of two African languages (Berber and Zulu), and groups from oral cultures such as speakers of Palikúr living in the Amazon forest, and speakers of Daakie on the South Pacific island of Vanuatu. Listeners from each language were more accurate than chance at guessing the intended referent of the vocalisations for each of the meanings tested. An online experiment allowed researchers to test whether a large number of diverse participants around the world were able to understand the vocalisations. “It’s fantastic that UKZN, as the only participating African university, and isiZulu speakers, contributed to this research,” Zeller said.